Titre: Gav’s ÐΞV Update I: Where Ethereum’s at\nAuteur: Gavin Wood\nDate: October 17, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/10/17/gavs-dev-update-ethereums\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nho are younn'm av - together with effrey ilcke and italik uterin, 'm one third of the ultimate leadership of thereum ÐΞ. ÐΞ is a  software firm that is under a non-profit-making agreement with the thereum oundation to create version . of the eb hree software stack. e three directors---who are ultimately responsible that the software is built and works---are the same three developers who designed and implemented the first working versions of the thereum clients.nnÐΞ is geographically split between ondon (where our comms operation is based) and erlin (which hosts the main hub of ÐΞ). hough 'm based in ug, witzerland (being an thereum employee),  have been involved most recently in putting together the erlin side of things.nnince its inception in summer, we have been working to set up the technical side of the project, under which we include our communications, education and adoption team lead by tephan ual and helped by athias rønnebæk for the organisation of operations.nn erlin ho's honneron uchanan, though originally brought on as a mathematical modeller, has been very successful in coordinating erlin's various operations including helping set up the arduous process of getting a bank account, recruitment, financial juggling to get people paid, technical interviews and other tedious administration tasks more recently he has also been helping sort out the  side of things, too.nn must acknowledge rian abian who helped connect us while in erlin and made it possible for us to have a legal structure in place quickly. t present, the operation in erlin is directed by our major ythereum contributor, eiko ees, with eron being the essential point of control for all operations. ver time, we epect eron to get back to modelling and to find a suitable candidate for the day-to-day management of the hub.nnuring our time in erlin we've been very active in hiring (which as a process is considerably more arduous than you might think) le everington was our first hire and he flew to erlin all the way from eas to join the team. le has been engaged helping out with the ac builds and making volunteer contributions since early in the year, so it's great that he wanted to step forward into a permanent role. ow le has been working on some of the internals of the ++ client (specifically the client multipleing, allowing multiple eb hree applications to coeist on the same physical machine).nnver the past few months we've recruited a few more people ne of our first hires following le is hristian, who holds a h in ultiobjective ptimization and anguage quations and is now engaged in prototyping and implementing the new domain-specific contract-authoring language thatnn proposed a while agonn, olidity. t around the same time, we also hired hristoph, currently finishing his h in physics and who utterly loves writing unit tests. t didn't take me long to realise he'd be great for sorting out our clients' interoperability issues. e has been leading our recent surge in getting the protocol in alignment for all clients through a comprehensive code-covering set of unit tests for the virtual machine operation.nnur newest recruit, arek, journeying to erlin from oland, was an early thereum volunteer and enjoyed making contracts on some early ++ client prototypes. oming from a eb-technology background (though being perfectly competent in ++), he has now started working on our ++/avascript , aiming towards full node.js integration to facilitate backend integration with eisting web sites. orking alongside arek is arian, the feathers in whose cap include much of the technical prowess behind the highly successful ether sale. e has been developing out some ofnnthe first eb appsnnto use thereum as its backend.nn look forward to welcoming three more hires in the coming weeks, including some personnel with rather impressive and uniquely relevant backgrounds. ore news on that net time.nnnd ore...nnack in ondon, we've hired design outfit roof-of-ork, headed by ouis hang, to put together our new website and brand. e're ecstatic with how things are coming along there and look forward to unveiling it soon. nce this is in place we'll have a much clearer way of getting our updates and information out regarding what's happening at ÐΞ.nnternally to ÐΞ but supported by it are a number of other individuals and projects  am very grateful to im, who continues to consult on our efforts at an -resistant proof-of-work algorithm, also implementing it in ++. imilarly, aktu an early volunteer and maintainer of the curses-based ++ thereum front-end neth has been invaluble (alongside oris and ick avers) in getting anncontinuous integrationnnsystem up and running. e are pleased to support both of them in their endeavours to make this project a success.nnurthermore the guys atnnnn, a software firm in arsaw specialising in advanced languages and compilers deserve a great nod for their on-going efforts at using their considerable epertise in implementing a just-in-time () compiled version of the thereum virtual machine and making computationally-comple contracts a reasonably affordable possibility.nninally,  must thank the thereum (ava client) volunteer developers oman and ick, both of whom have visited us in our prototype hub here in erlin, and who work tirelessly to find different and innovative new ways of interpreting the formal protocol specification.nnhe alifornia onnectionnnver in ilicon alley, we have made two hires, oseph and artin oseph will be leading the efforts there and concentrating on developing some of our core Ðapps that will help demonstrate the potential of thereum. artin is leading the effort to create a pure avascript implementation of thereum, a lofty goal, and thus all the more impressive that the project now has a core that is compatible with o-.nne are also looking forward to working with the greemint oundation (ie. intchalk), with their effort to create an online contract development environment, to provide a simple and highly accessible interface for the beginner and intermediate level users to learn about contract development and create and deploy eb hree Ðapps.nnn the future we hope to epand our operations there, particularly over anuary and ebruary when italik and  will be staying there, we in particular look forward to spending some time discussing the future of data sharing and online publication with uan of  and are optimistic about the possibility of finding some synergy between our projects.nnn o-ing evelopmentnnhough 'm sure eff will make his own post on the goings-on over at his olang-orientated end,  will say that on a personal note 'm very happy that le (akannavsann) has joined us on a permanent basis. le is well known on the thereum forums and his mockups of what eb hree could look like were simply incredible in insight, technical knowledge and polish. s an accomplished  &  engineer, he'll be joining eff in taking ist, the eb hree browser, forward and making it into what  am sure will simultaneously be the most revolutionary and pleasing to use piece of new software in a very long time.nno what's happening in erlin thennnhen we arrived at first we needed somewhere to be based out of thanks to rian, we were invited to the ainmaking oft, an ecellent space for tech startups that need somewhere to spread their rug prior to world domination. ince ugust we've had a nice big desk there for our developers to work alongside our inimitable location scout, hub outfitter, project manager and interior designer rolled into one arah.nnarah has worked tirelessly in finding our perfect location, our perfect contractors and our perfect fitures and fittings and making it actually work. ight now as  write this at am , she's probably up on eay looking for a decent deal for office chairs or costing a well-placed dry wall. nd what a job she has done thus far. e will be based in probably the most perfect place we could hope for. alking distance to two -bahn stations, we're located on a quiet street adjacent to ranienstraße and a central point of reuzberg. e're a short cycle ride from the centre of erlin's mass and, in the opposite direction, from the beautiful canal and eukölln. e have some lovely quiet bars and cafés on our sey little street and the bustling new-tech area that is reuzberg at the end of it.nnur new hub, designed and outfitted by her will be a m² cross of office, homely relaation environment and (self-service) café---a new (and erman-building-law-friendly) twist on the notion of the holon. e'll be able to host meetups and events, have a great area for working and have ample collaboration space for any other thereum-aligned operations that would prefer not to pay coffee-ta for their power & wifi.nnot to be forgotten, helping eron and me with administration, procurements and organisation, not to mention general erman-speaking tasks, isa has been invaluable during this period.nnnd what have we been doingnnince beginning, ÐΞ's time has inevitably been wast^^^^ spent wisely in bureaucracy, administration and red tape. t is impressive how much of a pain doing business in a perfectly well developed nation like ermany can be. lowly (and thanks in no small part to eron) this tediousness is starting to let up. hen not engaged in such matters, we've been pressing to get our most recent proof-of-concept releases out, o- and o-. o- brought with it a number of important alterations to the thereum virtual machine and the core protocol. o- brought a -second block time (this is just for stress-testing for the mainet we're aiming for a  second block time) and wonderfully fast parallel block-chain downloading. urthermore we've been talking with various potential technology partners concerning the future of warm, our data distribution system, including with our good friend uan atiz-enet (italik &  got to know him while staying at his house in ilicon alley for a week back in arch).nnpeaking at a few meetings and conferences has taken time also. n my case, the keynote speaker at both nside itcoin and atin merica's popular tech-fest ampus arty was an honour, as was the invitation to address the main hall at the wonderful niversity an rancisco of uito.  hesitate to imagine the number of such engagements italik has done during the same time period.nnn addition to his impressive public speaking schedule, italik has been putting in considerable efforts into research on potential consensus algorithms. ogether with lad, a number of potential approaches have been mooted over the past few weeks. ltimately, we decided to follow the advice of some in our community, like ick zabo, who have urged us to focus on getting a working product off the ground and not try to make every last detail perfect before launching. n that regard, we've decided to move many of our more ambitious changes, including native etensions, auto-triggering events and proof of stake, into a planned future upgrade to happen around mid-to-late .nnowever, during a two-week visit to ondon italik made major progress working with lad on developing stable proof-of-stake consensus algorithms, and we have a few models that we think are likely to work and solve all of the problems inherent in current approaches. he two have also begun more thoroughly laying the plans for our upcoming upgrades in scalability.nnore recently,  have been hard at work rewriting much of the networking code and altering the network protocol to truly split off the peer-to-peer portion of the code to make an abstract layer for all peer-to-peer applications, including those eternal to the eb hree project that wish to piggyback on the thereum peer network. 've also been getting o- up to scratch and more reliable, as well as upgrading my team's development processes which predictably were becoming a little too informal for an increasingly large team. e'll be moving towards a peer-reviewed (rather than av-reviewed) commit review process, we have a much more curated itub issue tracker, alongside an increasingly scrum-oriented project management framework (a switch to ivotal racker is underway - everything public, of course). ost recently 've been working on thennhisper projectnn, designing, developing, chewing things over and prototyping.nninally, we've also been making inroads into some well-known and some other not-so-well-known firms that can help us make our final core software as safe and secure as humanly possible. 'm sorry  can't go into anything more specific now, but rest assured, this is one of our priorities.nno there you have it. hat's been happening.nnnd what's going to happennnside from the continuing hiring process and our inroads into setting up a solid security audit, we will very soon be instituting a more informal manner for volunteers and contributors to be supported by the project. n the coming days we will be launching a number of ÐΞ schemes to make it possible for dedicated and productive members of the thereum and eb hree community to apply for bursaries and epenses for visiting us at one of our hub locations. atch this space.nnn terms of coding, ÐΞ, at present, has one mission the completion of version . of the thereum client software which will enable the release of the genesis block. his will be done as soon as possible, though we will release the genesis block only when we (and many others in the security world) are happy that it is safe to do so we are presently aiming to have it out sometime during this winter (i.e. between ecember st and arch st). his will include at least a basic contract development environment (the focus of the work here in erlin under myself), an advanced client based around oogle's hromium browser technology and several core Ðapps (the focus of the work under eff), and various command-line tools.nnn specifics, after we have o- out, we'll be making at most one more proof-of-concept release before freezing the protocol and moving into our alpha release series. he first alpha will signal the end of our core refactoring & optimisation process and the beginning of our security audit we aim to have this under way within the net - weeks. he security audit will involve a number of people and firms, both internal and eternal, both hired and incentivised, analysing the design and implementations looking for flaws, bugs and potential attack vectors. nce all parties involved have signed off on all aspects of the system will we move to organise a coordinated release of the final block chain. e epect the auditing process to take - months, with another couple of weeks to coordinate the final release.nnuring this process we will be developing out the other parts of the project, including the hisper messaging protocol, the contract development environment and olidity, the thereum browser, ist and the core Ðapps, all in readiness for the genesis block release.nne will take a very much fluid attitude to software development & release and incrementally roll out updates and improvements to our core suite of software over time. e don't want to keep you waiting with the release of the blockchain and so that is our development priority. o you may be assured, it will be released just as soon as it is ready.nno hold on to your hats! ou'll be coding contracts and hacking society into new forms before you know it.nnav.