Titre: On Silos\nAuteur: Vitalik Buterin\nDate: December 31, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/12/31/silos\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nne of the criticisms that many people have made about the current direction of the cryptocurrency space is the increasing amount of fragmentation that we are seeing. hat was earlier perhaps a more tightly bound community centered around developing the common infrastructure of itcoin is now increasingly a collection of "silos", discrete projects all working on their own separate things. here are a number of developers and researchers who are either working for thereum or working on ideas as volunteers and happen to spend lots of time interacting with the thereum community, and this set of people has coalesced into a group dedicated to building out our particular vision. nother quasi-decentralized collective,nnitsharesnn, has set their hearts on their own vision, combining their particular combination of , market-pegged assets and vision of blockchain as decentralized autonomous corporation as a way of reaching their political goals of free-market libertarianism and a contract free society.nnlockstreamnn, the company behind "sidechains", has likewise attracted their own group of people and their own set of visions and agendas - and likewise fornnruthcoinnn,nnaidsafenn, , and many others.nnne argument, often raised by itcoin maimalists and sidechains proponents, is that this fragmentation is harmful to the cryptocurrency ecosystem - instead of all going our own separate ways and competing for users, we should all be working together and cooperating under itcoin's common banner. s abian rian ranennsummarizesnnnnne recent event that has further inflamed the discussion is the publication of the sidechains proposal. he idea of sidechains is to allow the trustless innovation of altcoins while offering them the same monetary base, liquidity and mining power of the itcoin network.nnor the proponents, this represents a crucial effort to rally the cryptocurrency ecosystem behind its most successful project and to build on the infrastructure and ecosystem already in place, instead of dispersing efforts in a hundred different directions.nnven to those who disagree with itcoin maimalism, this seems like a rather reasonable point, and even if the cryptocurrency community should not all stand together under the banner of "itcoin" one may argue that we need to all stand together somehow, working to build a more unified ecosystem. f itcoin is not powerful enough to be a viable backbone for life, the crypto universe and everything, then why not build a better and more scalable decentralized computer instead and build everything on thatnnypercubesnncertainlynnseemnnpowerful enough to be worth being a maimalist over, if you're the sort of person to whom one--to-rule-them-all proposals are intuitively appealing, and the members of itshares, lockstream and other "silos" are often quite eager to believe the same thing about their own particular solutions, whether they are based on merged-mining,  plus itssets or whatever else.nno why not f there truly is one consensus mechanism that is best, why should we not have a large merger between the various projects, come up with the best kind of decentralized computer to push forward as a basis for the crypto-economy, and move forward together under one unified system n some respects, this seems noble "fragmentation" certainly has undesirable properties, and it is natural to see "working together" as a good thing. n reality, however, while more cooperation is certainly useful, and this blog post will later describe how and why, desires for etreme consolidation or winner-take-all are to a large degreenneactly wrongnn- not only is fragmentation not all that bad, but rather it's inevitable, and arguably the only way that this space can reasonably prosper.nngree to isagreennhy has fragmentation been happening, and why should we continue to let it happen o the first question, and also simultaneously to the second, the answer is simple we fragment because we disagree. articularly, consider some of the following claims, all of which  believe in, but which are in many cases a substantial departure from the philosophies of many other people and projectsnn do not think thatnnweak subjectivitynnis all that muchnnof a problemnn. owever, much higher degrees of subjectivity and intrinsic reliance on etra-protocol social consensus  am still not comfortable with.nn consider itcoin's $ million/year wasted electricity on proof of work to be an utter environmental and economic tragedy.nn believe s arenna serious problemnn, and that as a result of them itcoin has become qualitatively less secure over the past two years.nn consider itcoin (or any other fied-supply currency) to be too incorrigibly volatile to ever be annstablennunit of account, and believe that the best route to cryptocurrency price stability is by eperimenting with intelligently designed fleible monetary policies (ie.  "nnthe marketnn" or "thennitcoin central banknn"). owever,  am not interested in bringing cryptocurrency monetary policy under any kind of centralized control.nn have a substantially more anti-institutional/libertarian/anarchistic mindsetnnthannnsomennpeoplenn, but substantially less sonnthannnothersnn(and am incidentallynnnot an ustrian economistnn). n general,  believe there is value to both sides of the fence, and believe strongly in being diplomatic and working together to make the world a better place.nn am not in favor of there beingnnone-currency-to-rule-them-allnn, in the crypto-economy or anywhere.nn think token sales are an awesome tool for decentralized protocol monetization, and that everyone attacking the concept outright is doing a disservice to society by threatening to take away a beautiful thing. owever,  do agree that the model as implemented by us and other groups so farnnhas its flawsnnand we should be actively eperimenting with different models that try tonnalign incentives betternn believennfutarchynnis promising enough to be worth trying, particularly in a blockchain governance contet.nn consider economics and game theory to be a key part of cryptoeconomic protocol analysis, and consider the primary academic deficit of the cryptocurrency community to be not ignorance of advanced computer science, but rather economics and philosophy. e should reach out tonnhttp//lesswrong.com/nnmore.nn see one of the primary reasons why people will adopt decentralized technologies (blockchains, whisper, s) in practice to be the simple fact that software developers are lazy, and do not wish to deal with the compleities of maintaining a centralized website.nn consider thennblockchain-as-decentralized-autonomous-corporationnnmetaphor to be useful, but limited. articularly,  believe that we as cryptocurrency developers should be taking advantage of this perhaps brief period in which cryptocurrency is still an idealist-controlled industry to design institutions that maimize utilitarian social welfare metrics, not profit (no, they are not equivalent, primarilynnbecause of thesenn).nnhere are probably very few people who agree with me on every single one of the items above. nd it is not just myself that has my own peculiar opinions. s another eample, consider the fact that the  of penransactions, hris dom,nnsays things like thisnnnnhat is needed is to replace trusted entities with systems of cryptographic proof. ny entity that you see in the itcoin community that you have to trust is going to go away, it's going to cease to eist ... atoshi's dream was to eliminate trusted] entities entirely, either eliminate the risk entirely or distribute the risk in a way that it's practically eliminated.nneanwile,nncertain othersnnfeel the need to say things like thisnnut differently, commercially viable reduced-trust networks do not need to protect the world from platform operators. hey will need to protect platform operators from the world for the benefit of the platform’s users.nnf course, if you see the primary benefit of cryptocurrency as beingnnregulation avoidancennthen that second quote also makes sense, but in a way completely different from the way its original author intended - but that once again only serves to show just how differently people think. ome people see cryptocurrency as a capitalist revolution, others see it as an egalitarian revolution, and others see everything in between. ome see human consensus as a very fragile and corruptible thing and cryptocurrency as a beacon of light that can replace it with hard math others see cryptocurrency consensus as being only an etension of human consensus, made more efficient with technology. ome consider the best way to achieve cryptoassets with dollar parity to benndual-coin financial derivative schemesnn others see the simpler approach as being to use blockchains to representnnclaimsnnonnnreal-world assetsnninstead (and still others think that itcoin will eventually be more stable than the dollar all on its own). ome think that scalability is best done by "nnscaling upnn" others believe the ultimately superior option is "nnscaling outnn".nnf course, many of these issues are inherently political, and some involve public goods in those cases, live and let live is not always a viable solution. f a particular platform enables negative eternalities, or threatens to push society into a suboptimal equilibrium, then you cannot "opt out" simply by using your platform instead. here, some kind of network-effect-driven or even in etreme cases %-attack-driven censure may be necessary. n some cases, the differences are related to private goods, and are primarily simply a matter of empirical beliefs. f  believe thatnnchellingollarnnis the best scheme for price stability, and others prefernneignorage haresnnornnuitsnnthen after a few years or decades one model will prove to work better, replace its competition, and that will be that.nnn other cases, however, the differences will be resolved in a different way it will turn out that the properties of some systems are better suited for some applications, and other systems better suited for other applications, and everything will naturally specialize into those use cases where it works best. s a number of commentators have pointed out, for decentralized consensus applications in the mainstream financial world, banks will likely not be willing to accept a network managed by anonymous nodes in this case, something like ipple will be more useful. ut for ilk oad ., the eact opposite approach is the only way to go - and for everything in between it's a cost-benefit analysis all the way. f users want networks specialized to performing specific functions highly efficiently, then networks will eist for that, and if users want a general purpose network with a high network effect between on-chain applications then that will eist as well. s avid ohnston points out, blockchains are like programming languages they each have their own particular properties, and few developers religiously adhere to one language eclusively - rather, we use each one in the specific cases for which it is best suited.nnoom for ooperationnnowever, as was mentioned earlier, this does not mean that we should simply go our own way and try to ignore - or worse, actively sabotage, each other. ven if all of our projects are necessarily specializing toward different goals, there is nevertheless a substantial opportunity for much less duplication of effort, and more cooperation. his is true on multiple levels. irst, let us look at a model of the cryptocurrency ecosystem - or, perhaps, a vision of what it might look like in - years timennthereum has its own presence on pretty much every levelnnonsensusnn thereum blockchain, data-availablility chelling-vote (maybe for thereum .)nnconomicsnn ether, an independent token, as well as research intonnstablecoin proposalsnnlockchain servicesnn name registrynnff-chain servicesnn hisper (messaging), web of trust (in progress)nnnteropnn -to-ether bridge (in progress)nnrowsersnn istnnow, consider a few other projects that are trying to build holistic ecosystems of some kind. itshares has at the leastnnonsensusnn nnconomicsnn  and itssetsnnlockchain servicesnn  decentralized echangennrowsersnn itshares client (though not quite a browser in the same concept)nnaidsafe hasnnonsensusnn  networknnconomicsnn afecoinnnff-chain servicesnn istributed hash table, aidsafe rivennitorrent has announced their plans fornnaelstromnn, a project intended to serve a rather similar function to ist, albeit showcasing their own (not blockchain-based) technology. ryptocurrency projects generally all build a blockchain, a currency and a client of their own, although forking a single client is common for the less innovative cases. amennregistrationnnandnnidentitynnmanagementnnsystems are now anndimenna dozen. nd, of course, just about every project realizes that it has a need for some kind of reputation and web of trust.nnow, let us paint a picture of an alternative world. nstead of having a collection of cleanly disjoint vertically integrated ecosystems, with each one building its own components for everything, imagine a world where ist could be used to access thereum, itshares, aidsafe or any other major decentralized infrastructure network, with new decentralized networks being installable much like the plugins for lash and ava inside of hrome and irefo. magine that the reputation data in the web of trust for thereum could be reused in other projects as well. magine tor running inside of aelstrom as a dapp, using aidsafe for a file storage backend, and using the thereum blockchain to maintain the contracts that incentivize continued storage and downloading. magine identities being automatically transferrable across any crypto-networks, as long as they use the same underlying cryptographic algorithms (eg.  + ).nnhe key insight here is this although some of the layers in the ecosystem are inetricably linked - for eample, a single dapp will often correspond to a single specific service on the thereum blockchain - in many cases the layers can easily be designed to be much more modular, allowing each product on each layer to compete separately on its own merits. rowsers are perhaps the most separable component most reasonably holistic lower level blockchain service sets have similar needs in terms of what applications can run on them, and so it makes sense for each browser to support each platform. ff-chain services are also a target for abstraction any decentralized application, regardless of what blockchain technology it uses, should be free to use hisper, warm,  or any other service that developers come up with. n-chain services, like data provision, can theoretically be built so as to interact with multiple chains.nndditionally, there are plenty of opportunities to collaborate on fundamental research and development. iscussion on proof of work, proof of stake, stable currency systems and scalability, as well as othernnhard problems of cryptoeconomicsnncan easily be substantially more open, so that the various projects can benefit from and be more aware of each other's developments. asic algorithms and best practices related to networking layers, cryptographic algorithm implementations and other low-level components can, and should, be shared. nteroperability technologies should be developed to facilitate easy echange and interaction between services and decentralized entities on one platform and another. hennryptocurrency esearch roupnnis one initiative that we plan to initially support, with the hope that it will grow to flourish independently of ourselves, with the goal of promoting this kind of cooperation. ther formal and informal institutions can doubtlessly help support the process.nnopefully, in the future we will see many more projects eisting in a much more modular fashion, living on only one or two layers of the cryptocurrency ecosystem and providing a common interface allowing any mechanism on any other layer to work with them. f the cryptocurrency space goes far enough, then even irefo and hrome may end up adapting themselves to process decentralized application protocols as well.  journey toward such an ecosystem is not something that needs to be rushed immediately at this point, we have quite little idea of what kinds of blockchain-driven services people will be using in the first place, making it hard to determine eactly what kind of interoperability would actually be useful. owever, things slowly but surely are taking their first few steps in that direction ris'snnecervernn, their own "browser" into the decentralized world, supports access to itcoin, thereum, their own helonious blockchains as well as an  content hosting network.nnhere is room for many projects that are currently in the crypto . space to succeed, and so having a winner-take-all mentality at this point is completely unnecessary and harmful. ll that we need to do right now to set off the journey on a better road is to live with the assumption that we are all building our own platforms, tuned to our own particular set of preferences and parameters, but at the end of the day a plurality of networks will succeed and we will need to live with that reality, so might as well start preparing for it now.nnappy new year, and looking forward to an ecitingnnnn nno atoshii.