Titre: Ethereum Community and Adoption Update - Week 1\nAuteur: Stephan Tual\nDate: November 3, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/11/03/stephans-ethereum-community-adoption-update-week-1\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\ni, 'm tephan ual, and 've been responsible for thereum's adoption and education since anuary as . 'm also leading our nnÐΞnnhub, located at o-ork in utney (outh est ondon).nn feel really privileged to be able to lead the effort on the communication strategy at ÐΞ. or the very first time, we’re seeing the mainstream public take a genuine interest in the potential of decentralisation. he feeling of ecitement about what ‘could be’ when  first read italik’s whitepaper on that fateful hristmas afternoon is now shared by dozens of thousands of technologists, developers and entrepreneurs.nnhanks to the ther sale, a group of smart, hardworking individuals is now able to work full time on solving core technical and adoption challenges, and to deliver a solution at  the speed an equivalent garage-based initiative would have taken. ith thereums’ s supporting av’s vision fornnweb nn, it finally is in the reach of the community to build decentralized applications without middlemen. y democratizing access to programmable blockchain technology, thereum empowers software developers and entrepreneurs to make a major impact on not only the decentralisation of the economy, but also social structures, voting mechanisms and so much more. t’s a very ambitious project, and everyone atnnÐΞnnfeels a strong sense of duty to to deliver on this vision.nns part of our efforts, technology is - of course - key, but so is adoption. thereum without dapps (decentralized apps) would be akin to a video game console without launch titles, and, just like any protocol, we epect the applications to be the real stars of the show. ere’s how we plan to spread the word and support developers in their efforts.nnducationnnuilding a curriculumnn e’re building an etensive curriculum adapted to both teachers and self-learners at home, at hackathons and in universities around the globe. onsisting of well defined modules progressing over time in their compleity, our goal is to establish a learning standard that will be of course completely free of charge and % pen ource.nnontent aggregationnn at the moment we are aware that information on how to ‘get into’ thereum is a little bit fragmented between forums, multiplennwikisnnand various rd party sites.  subdomain to our website will be created during the course of the net few months to access this valuable information easily and in one place.nnroduce tutorials, videos and articlesnn tutorials are key to learn a new set of languages and tools. y producing both videos and tet-based tutorials, we intend to give the community an insiders’s view on best practices, from structuring contract storage to leveraging the newnnwhispernn messaging system for eample.nnodecademy-like sitenn not everyone likes to learn within a classroom environment, and some feel constrained by linear tutorials. ith a release date coinciding with the launch of thereum, we’re partnering with a -based company to build a odecademy-like site within a gamified environment, where you'll be able to learn at your own pace how to build dapps and their backend contracts.nnniversity chaptersnn nnitalik and  recently gave a presentation at ambridge niversity and thereum will participate in thennackathon on ransparencynnon ovember  at the niversity of eneva. ncouraged by the enthusiasm we’ve witnessed in the academic world, we are working to support directly thennbridge locktech etworknn() in their efforts to build a network of chapters, firstly within the  then throughout urope.nn’m happy to announce that en appler has joined the  team to help with these educational efforts. any of you in ondon know en as he’s been a semi-permanent fiture at all our meetups and hackathons, kindly helping behind the scenes. en, known as luehain onnnnn, is also the writer behindnnhttp//dappsforbeginners.wordpress.com/nnwhich will soon merge with our own education site.nnen will lead a weekly ‘thereum linic’ on  to answer any questions you might have with your current project. imes will be posted on ournnforums.nneetupsnnncouraging the creation of new meetupsnn we now have an etensive network ofnn meetupsnnworldwide, which is an amazing achievement but not sufficient to handle the overwhelming demand for regular catchups in a format that’s appropriate for the local needs and culture. e intend to encourage the creation of new meetups in almost every country and major urban hubs.nnooling and supportnn in order to drive the effort to create and maintain such a large network of international meetups, we will be providing tools for meetup leaders to interact with each other, gain access to the core dev team for video-conference or physical interventions, and echange information about speakers. hese tools will of course be free to use and access.nnollaterals and venuesnn for the meetups that are the most active, thereum is considering, where appropriate, the use of small bursaries so that meetup leaders in these ‘core locales’ do not have to contend with the full costs of collaterals and venues. e will also work with our partners to help meetups secure sponsorships and access to free locations to hold their mini-conferences.nnlobal ackathonnn tarting this week, the thereum workshops are going to slowly transform into proper hackathons. e are working with wonderful locations around the globe, the vast majority of which started off as thereum meetups, to organize a worldwide hackathon with some great  prizes for the best dapps.nne're very lucky to welcomennnthony ’onofrionnto drive these very important initiatives. nthony starts on the th of this month and will also cover the orth merican region from a community perspective - you probably already know him as 'eture’, his handle on most forums and channels.nnommunitynn’m incredibly proud that thereum’s eposure in the community has been entirely organic since day one. his has been the result of major, time consuming efforts to identify thereum projects in the wild, reaching out directly and building a strong relationship with our user base. e have achieved several key milestones, including over , followers onnnwitternn, , page views per month on our website, similar numbers on ournnforumsnnand the growth trend only continues to accelerate.nnistorically, thereum has never used  as a tool to increase adoption, relying instead on word of mouth, meetups and conferences to spread the word. s the media attention is now intensifying rapidly, ’m pleased to welcome reya tevens to the team as /arketing lead. reya will help us build a shared database of media leads, write articles and make comple technology palatable to the general public while identifying strong story angles. reya is based out of ambridge, .nnlso with a view to to scale up these initiatives we’re proud to welcome eorge allam to the team, nnthehighfiveghostnn, who recently posted annsurveynnso you can let thereum know how well we’re doing our job as custodians and developers of the platform. eorge, as a key supporter to thennondon communitynn, will be already be familiar to many.nns part of these efforts, epect to see a lot more interactions onnnedditnn,nnnn, iscuss and of course our very ownnnforumsnn. eorge will also help me identify key thereum-based projects and make contact to see how we can best help with information, connections and inclusion as guests in our weekly video updates, shot at our utney tudio.nnn order to produce very high quality content, we are also welcoming an eikle to the ondon ub. an is the creator of most of the video materials you might have seen relating to thereum, including the superbnnvideo loopnnthat has been a staple at many thereum meetups. an will leverage the equipment at our studio to create eplainer videos, interview key players in the space, and record panels led bynninay uptann, who joins the coms team as trategic onsultant.nnn ondon, and above and beyond our eistingnnpanels, socials and hackathonsnn, regular 'show and tell' are being scheduled for dapp developers to present their work and receive feedback, a model we intend to promote internationally within the month.nnnd of course, last but not least, epect a major refresh to our website, with beautiful, clean content, practical eamples of dapps, a dynamic meetup map and links to all our newly created assets and community points of contacts.nnn conclusionnnhe question we’re going to continue asking ourselves everyday is how do we support you, the community, in building kick-ass dapps and being successful in your venture on our platform.  hope the above gives you a quick intro as to our plans. ’ll be issuing regular updates both on this blog and on ournnyoutubenn.nntephan (stephan.nospam.tualethdev.com)