Titre: building the decentralized web 3.0\nAuteur: Taylor Gerring\nDate: August 18, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/08/18/building-decentralized-web\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhow ethereum could shard the webnniven the state of our -year old web and all the problems inherited from legacy 's systems design, we should pause and take inventory of those components which are fundamentally broken and would offer a substantial return on development investment. ntersecting this concern with security, privacy, and censorship resistance, it should be painfully obvious thatnnan all-out attack on nternet infrastructure is already underwaynn. s netizens, a shared duty falls on us to eplore, eploit, and implement new technologies that benefits creators, not oppressors.nnnd while cryptography first allowed us to secure our messages from prying eyes, it is increasingly being used in more abstract ways like the secure movement of digital value via cryptocurrencies. f  was the first major iteration of applied crypto and itcoin the second, then  anticipate that the interaction and integration of crypto into the very fabric of a decentralized web will be the refined third implementation, taking root and blossoming in popularity.nnthe eplosion of web servicesnnaking a look back at the brief history of the web, most would agree that eb . was epitomized by  scripts generating templated content on a server and delivering it to the client in a final form. his was a clear model of monolithic centralization, however, this basic form of interactivity was a huge improvement over the basic post-and-read format that comprised much of internet content at that time. magine having to reload the entire front page of igg every time you wanted to click somethingnnigg in , a prolific eample of “eb .” interactivity not afforded by traditional  scriptsnns browser technology advanced, eperimentation withnnnncalls began, allowing us to asynchronously perform actions without having to reload the whole page. inally, you could upvote without submitting an  form and reloading everything. his movement to separate content from presentation—aided by —pushed the web forward.nnoday we have technologies likennngularnnandnnmbernnwhich ask the designer to generate a client template with specific data holes to be filled in by some backend. lthough these frameworks facilitate some of the programming glue for seamless and live updates, they also nudge the developer to work in a specific way. ut this is only a moderate step towards eb ..nnamuse-bouchennhe real eb . has yet to begin, but it could obliterate the notion of separating content from presentation by removing the need to have servers at all. et's take a look at some of the underlying technologies the thereum roject aims to delivernnontractsnn decentralized logicnnwarmnn decentralized storagennhispernn decentralized messagingnnnteraction including thereum contracts, warm storage, hisper commsnnechnologies like warm could serve as the underlying static hosting infrastructure, removing the need to highly distribute and cache specific content. ecause “nndecentralized dropbonn” has been discussed with such frequency, epect -like bindings or services to be built atop this type of blob storage, making integration with the decentralized web . even simpler. his effort will also allow replacement of typical content delivery networks (nnnn) with a distributed hash table (nnnn) pointing to file blobs, much how itorrent works. ecause of the fleibility offered by ethereum contracts, the model of content access could be creator pays, reader pays, or some hybrid system.nno we've just replaced the need to have caches, reverse proies, s, load balancers, and the like to serve static content to users. nother way in which theruem could impact this traditional infrastructure is by replacing business logic application tiers with on-blockchain contracts. raditionally developed in a variety of web-friendly languages like erl, , ython, , #, and uby, ethereum contracts run in a fully-inspectable virtual machine that encourage simplicity and reuse. usiness analysts and project managers might find this code transparency refreshing, especially since the same code can be written innnerpentnn(a ython-like language),nnnn(a isp-like language),  (a nightmare), or even in visual block form!nnthereum contract code visual editornnow could all this be possible aking a look at the latestnnethereum proof-of-concept  avacript bindingsnn, we see that a sprinkling of avacript is all that’s required to monitor an account balance on the decentralized webnnnndivnnnnou havennnnspannnidnnnn"ether"nnnnnnnn/spannnnn.nnnn/divnnnnnnscriptnnnneth.watchnn(nn{nnaltered eth.secretoddressnn(nneth.keynn)nn}nn)nn.changednn(nnfunctionnn(nn)nn{nndocument.getlementydnn(nn"ether"nn)nn.inneretnnnneth.toecimalnn(nneth.balancetnn(nneth.secretoddressnn(nneth.keynn))nn)nn}nn)nnnnnn/scriptnnnnecause the ethereum protocol also acts as a large distributed key-store (a happy note for fans ofnnonn), eventually user accounts, credentials, and reputation can be migrated on-blockchain with the help of the hisper communication protocol. n this way, ethereum sets the stage for an total sharding of traditional infrastructure as we know it. o more comple high-availability infrastructure diagrams. n the ethereum ecosystem, even decentralized  is free.nnour browser does not support the video tag.nnvaluating this contet in a larger diagram of any systems infrastructure, it’s obvious that our current web isn't as privacy secure or censorship resistant as we desire. conomies of scale have allowed single institutions to offer a vast amount of processing power and storage on the internet for very low prices, thereby increasing their market share to a point where they individually control large segments of internet activity, often under the supervision of less-than-savvy governments. n a post-borders era where the nternet knows no bounds, such jurisdiction has little or no meaning.nns economics of the ethereum ecosystem mature such that open contracts for lowest-rate storage develop, a free market of content hosting could evolve. iven the nature and dynamics of  applications, popular content will readily scale as the swarm shares, rather than suffering from the buckling load of siloed servers. he net result is that popular content is deliverednnfasternn, not slower.nne’ve spent decades optimizing the protocols that the internet was first founded on, but it’s time to recognize opportunities lost by continually patching the old system instead of curating a new, optimized one. he future will likely bring with it a transition period between traditional and decentralized technologies, where applications live in a hybrid universe and users are unaware of the turbulent undercurrent. ut they should be.nnhis metamorphosis will offer developers an opportunity to build the net-generation of decentralized, private, secure, censorship-resistant platforms that return control to creators and consumers of the net best idea. nyone with a dream is free to build on this new class of net-generation decentralized web services without owning a credit card or signing up for any accounts.nnlthough we are not told to or epected to, we have an imperative to cherish and improve the very shared resources that some wish to disturb, manipulate, and control. ust as no single person fully understands the emerging internet collective intelligence, we should not epect any single entity to fully understand or maintain perfectly aligned motives. ather, we should rely on the internet to solve the problems of the internet.nnecause of this, blockchain technologies like thereum will allow for simplification and lowering of cost not seen since the introduction of infrastructure-as-a-service (nnaann). tending the idea to beyond a simple web project, thereum hopes to demonstrate how fully decentralized autonomous organizations (nnsnn) can live wholly within cyberspace, negating not only the need for centralized servers, but also trusted third-parties, realizing the dreams of early internet pioneers that envisioned an independentnnnew home of the mindnn.