Titre: Cryptographic Code Obfuscation: Decentralized Autonomous Organizations Are About to Take a Huge Leap Forward\nAuteur: Vitalik Buterin\nDate: February 8, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/02/08/cryptographic-code-obfuscation-decentralized-autonomous-organizations-are-about-to-take-a-huge-leap-forward\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhere have been a number of very interesting developments in cryptography in the past few years. atoshi’s blockchain notwithstanding, perhaps the first major breakthrough after blinding and zero-knowledge proofs isnnfully homomorphic encryptionnn, a technology which allows you to upload your data onto a server in an encrypted form so that the server can then perform calculations on it and send you back the results all without having any idea what the data is. n , we saw the beginnings ofnnsuccinct computational integrity and privacynn(), a toolkit pioneered by li ben asson in srael that lets you cryptographically prove that you carried out some computation and got a certain output. n the more mundane side, we now havennsponge functionsnn, an innovation that substantially simplifies the previous mess of hash functions, stream ciphers and pseudorandom number generators into a beautiful, single construction. ost recently of all, however, there has been another major development in the cryptographic scene, and one whose applications are potentially very far-reaching both in the cryptocurrency space and for software as a wholennobfuscationnn.nnhe idea behind obfuscation is an old one, and cryptographers have been trying to crack the problem for years. he problem behind obfuscation is this is it possible to somehow encrypt a program to produce another program that does the same thing, but which is completely opaque so there is no way to understand what is going on inside he most obvious use case is proprietary software – if you have a program that incorporates advanced algorithms, and want to let users use the program on specific inputs without being able to reverse-engineer the algorithm, the only way to do such a thing is to obfuscate the code. roprietary software is for obvious reasons unpopular among the tech community, so the idea has not seen a lot of enthusiasm, a problem compounded by the fact that each and every time a company would try to put an obfuscation scheme into practice it would quickly get broken. ive years ago, researchers put what might perhaps seem to be a final nail in the coffin a mathematical proof, using arguments vaguely similar to those used to show the impossibility of the halting problem, that a general purpose obfuscator that converts any program into a “black bo” is impossible.nnt the same time, however, the cryptography community began to follow a different path. nderstanding that the “black bo” ideal of perfect obfuscation will never be achieved, researchers set out to instead aim for a weaker target indistinguishability obfuscation. he definition of an indistinguishability obfuscator is this given two programs  and  that compute the same function, if an effective indistinguishability obfuscator  computes two new programs () and (), given  and  there is no (computationally feasible) way to determine which of  and  came from  and which came from . n theory, this is the best that anyone can do if there is a better obfuscator, , then if you put  and () through the indistinguishability obfuscator, there would be no way to tell between () and (()), meaning that the etra step of adding  could not hide any information about the inner workings of the program that  does not. reating such an obfuscator is the problem which many cryptographers have occupied themselves with for the last five years. nd in ,  cryptographer mit ahai, homomorphic encryption pioneer raig entry and several other researchersnnfigured out how to do itnn.nnoes the indistinguishability obfuscator actually hide private data inside the program o see what the answer is, consider the following. uppose your secret password is bobalot_, and the  of the password starts with bbbedef. ow, construct two programs.  just outputs bbbedef, whereas  actually stores bobalot_ inside, and when you run it it computes (bobalot_) and returns the first  he digits of the output. ccording to the indistinguishability property, () and () are indistinguishable. f there was some way to etract bobalot_ from , it would therefore be possible to etract bobalot_ from , which essentially implies that you can break  (or by etension any hash function for that matter). y standard assumptions, this is impossible, so therefore the obfuscator must also make it impossible to uncover bobalot_ from . hus, we can be pretty sure that ahai’s obfuscator does actually obfuscate.nno hat’s he ointnnn many ways, code obfuscation is one of the holy grails of cryptography. o understand why, consider just how easily nearly every other primitive can be implemented with it. ant public key encryption ake any symmetric-key encryption scheme, and construct a decryptor with your secret key built in. bfuscate it, and publish that on the web. ou now have a public key. ant a signature scheme ublic key encryption provides that for you as an easy corollary. ant fully homomorphic encryption onstruct a program which takes two numbers as an input, decrypts them, adds the results, and encrypts it, and obfuscate the program. o the same for multiplication, send both programs to the server, and the server will swap in your adder and multiplier into its code and perform your computation.nnowever, aside from that, obfuscation is powerful in another key way, and one which has profound consequences particularly in the field of cryptocurrencies andnndecentralized autonomous organizationsnn publicly running contracts can now contain private data. n top of second-generation blockchains likennthereumnn, it will be possible to run so-called “autonomous agents” (or, when the agents primarily serve as a voting system between human actors, “decentralized autonomous organizations”) whose code gets eecuted entirely on the blockchain, and which have the power to maintain a currency balance and send transactions inside the thereum system. or eample, one might have a contract for a non-profit organization that contains a currency balance, with a rule that the funds can be withdrawn or spent if % of the organization’s members agree on the amount and destination to send.nnnlike itcoin’s vaguely similar multisig functionality, the rules can be etremely fleible, for eample allowing a maimum of % per day to be withdrawn with only % consent, or making the organization a for-profit company whose shares are tradable and whose shareholders automatically receive dividends. p until now it has been thought that such contracts are fundamentally limited – they can only have an effect inside the thereum network, and perhaps other systems which deliberately set themselves up to listen to the thereum network. ith obfuscation, however, there are new possibilities.nnonsider the simplest case an obfuscated thereum contract can contain a private key to an address inside the itcoin network, and use that private key to sign itcoin transactions when the contract’s conditions are met. hus, as long as the thereum blockchain eists, one can effectively use thereum as a sort of controller for money that eists inside of itcoin. rom there, however, things only get more interesting. uppose now that you want a decentralized organization to have control of a bank account. ith an obfuscated contract, you can have the contract hold the login details to the website of a bank account, and have the contract carry out an entire  session with the bank, logging in and then authorizing certain transfers. ou would need some user to act as an intermediary sending packets between the bank and the contract, but this would be a completely trust-free role, like an internet service provider, and anyone could trivially do it and even receive a reward for the task. utonomous agents can now also have social networking accounts, accounts to virtual private servers to carry out more heavy-duty computations than what can be done on a blockchain, and pretty much anything that a normal human or proprietary server can.nnooking orwardnnhus, we can see that in the net few years decentralized autonomous organizations are potentially going to become much more powerful than they are today. ut what are the consequences going to be n the developed world, the hope is that there will be a massive reduction in the cost of setting up a new business, organization or partnership, and a tool for creating organizations that are much more difficult to corrupt. uch of the time, organizations are bound by rules which are really little more than gentlemen’s agreements in practice, and once some of the organization’s members gain a certain measure of power they gain the ability to twist every interpretation in their favor.nnp until now, the only partial solution was codifying certain rules into contracts and laws – a solution which has its strengths, but which also has its weaknesses, as laws are numerous and very complicated to navigate without the help of a (often very epensive) professional. ith s, there is now also another alternative making an organization whose organizational bylaws are % crystal clear, embedded in mathematical code. f course, there are many things with definitions that are simply too fuzzy to be mathematically defined in those cases, we will still need some arbitrators, but their role will be reduced to a limited commodity-like function circumscribed by the contract, rather than having potentially full control over everything.nnn the developing world, however, things will be much more drastic. he developed world has access to a legal system that is at times semi-corrupt, but whose main problems are otherwise simply that it’s too biased toward lawyers and too outdated, bureaucratic and inefficient. he developing world, on the other hand, is plagues by legal systems that are fully corrupt at best, and actively conspiring to pillage their subjects at worst. here, nearly all businesses are gentleman’s agreements, and opportunities for people to betray each other eist at every step. he mathematically encoded organizational bylaws that s can have are not just an alternative they may potentially be the first legal system that people have that is actually there to help them. rbitrators can build up their reputations online, as can organizations themselves. ltimately, perhaps on-blockchain voting, like that being pioneered bynnitongressnn, may even form a basis for new eperimental governments. f frica can leapfrog straight from word of mouth communications to mobile phones, why not go from tribal legal systems with the interference of local governments straight to snnany will of course be concerned that having uncontrollable entities moving money around is dangerous, as there are considerable possibilities for criminal activity with these kinds of powers. o that, however, one can make two simple rebuttals. irst, although these decentralized autonomous organizations will be impossible to shut down, they will certainly be very easy to monitor and track every step of the way. t will be possible to detect when one of these entities makes a transaction, it will be easy to see what its balance and relationships are, and it will be possible to glean a lot of information about its organizational structure if voting is done on the blockchain. uch like itcoin, s are likely far too transparent to be practical for much of the underworld as  director ennifer hasky alverynnhas recently saidnn, “cash is probably still the best medium for laundering money”. econd, ultimately s cannot do anything normal organizations cannot do all they are is a set of voting rules for a group of humans or other human-controlled agents to manage ownership of digital assets. ven if a  cannot be shut down, its members certainly can be just as if they were running a plain old normal organization offline.nnhatever the dominant applications of this new technology turn out to be, one thing is looking more and more certain cryptography and distributed consensus are about to make the world a whole lot more interesting.