Titre: Ethereum in practice part 1: how to build your own cryptocurrency without touching a line of code\nAuteur: Alex Van de Sande\nDate: December 3, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/12/03/how-to-build-your-own-cryptocurrency\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nlot of things have happened in the past few weeks in the thereum ecosystem, so many that it might be hard for a casual observer to understand where we are and what's available out there. o  would like to use my first post here to give you an overview of the tools we've built and how you can use them to build interesting thingsnnright nownn.nnut first a short introduction  am le an de ande and  am the lead designer on the thereum foundation. t evconne  gave a talk entitlednn"he lockchain ersus he verage ser"nnwhere  went into more details on the challenges to bringing the thereum ecosystem to the aforementioned "verage ser", one of which is the difficulty of defining what that term even means. hen personal computers were introduced they were advertised as beingnn"to the rest of us"nn, but the "rest of us" public they targeted was actually annvery narrow audiencenninterested in word processing, spreadsheets and desktop publishing. oday, those would be considered among the top tier geeks, just below the kinds of people that still fight over thennmerits of im versus emacsnn.  truly believe that one day your andy-crush-playing grandma/grandpa will use the blockchain, just like today he/she uses databases and https connections without realising it (maybe when they convert blue diamonds won on one game into cows in another game by some other publisher). ut right now, what 'm working on is bringing it to that net tier of users, the ones that can download an office suite and figure out how to use a spreadsheet but don't feel comfortable around command lines.nno if you consider yourself in that group, then welcome we'll guide you to some basic activities you can do in a few minutes in ethereumnnuild your own cryptocurrency, building your own democracy and creating a central bank in the blockchainnn. e skipped the "ello orld" tutorial this time, but you'll do fine.nnownload the thereum alletnnownload the latest version of the alletnnut enough talking, let's get our hands dirty with thereum!  might be biased but 'd say the best place to start is the thereum allet, a multi platform app that will enable you to send ether and ethereum based currencies, create and eecute contracts.nnhe first thing you have to do on it is create an ethereum account. ll you need for it is a strong password and you'll get it. n order to do anything you'll need to put in some ether but don't worry you don't need much. ost of the contracts here will cost less than a tenth of a  penny. f you are just testing it, we recommend you switch to the testnet go in the menunndevelop  network  testnet (morden)nnand then onnndevelop  start miningnn. fter a few minutes you'll probably have enough ether to test anything, so you can turn it off and save your computer resources.nnhe wallet only allows basic mining on the testnet, but if you want to try your luck on the real net, then you need a more advanced tool. his used to be a cumbersome process but now there are better easier tools and we have new tools that will make that process much easier.nnhe lethne minernnis a straightforward tool with two buttons press one to start mining in your  and press the other to deposit your rewards in a wallet.nnownload it from the urbo uitenn, a set of power tools created by the ++ team to develop ethereum applications.nnf you want to create smart contracts on the live network and can't mine you'll need some ethers. ou can have a friend sent to you or you can echange it for bitcoins on a cryptoechange. f you are a bitcoin fan we suggest you keep on eye on the btcrelay project,nna fraud-proof sidechainnnthat will launch soon and allow quick echanges between ether and bitcoin without a third party.nnreate a tokennnhe first contract we are going to create is anntokennn. okens in the ethereum ecosystem can represent any fungible tradable good coins, loyalty points, gold certificates, s, in game items, etc. ince all tokens implement some basic features in a standard way, this also means that your token will be instantly compatible with the ethereum wallet and any other client or contract that uses the same standards.nno to the contracts page and then click "deploy new contract".nnow get thenntoken codennfrom here and paste it into the "olidity source field". f the code compiles without any error, you should see a "pick a contract" drop down on the left. et it and select the "yoken" contract. n the right column you'll see all the parameters you need to personalize your own token. ou can tweak them as you please, but for the purpose of this tutorial we recommend you to pick these parameters , as the supply, any name you want, "%" for a symbol and  decimal places. our app should be looking like thisnncroll to the end of the page and you'll see an estimate of the computation cost of that contract and you can select a fee on how much ether you are willing to pay for it.nnny ecess ether you don't spend will be returned to younnso you can leave the default settings if you wish. ress "deploy", type your account password and wait a few seconds for your transaction to be picked up.nnou'll be redirected to the front page where you can see your transaction waiting for confirmations. lick the account named "therbase" (your main account) and after no more than a minute you should see that your account will show that you have % of the shares you just created.  o send some to a few friends select "send", and then choose which currency you want to send (ether or your newly created share), paste your friend's address on the "to" field and press "send".nnf you send it to a friend, they will not see anything in their wallet yet. his is because the wallet only tracks tokens it knows about, and you have to add these manually. ow go to the "ontracts" tab and you should see a link for your newly created contract. lick on it to go to it's page. ince this is a very simple contract page there isn't much to do here, just click "copy address" and paste the contract address on a tet editor, you'll need it shortly.nno add a token to watch, go to the contracts page and then click "atch oken".  popup will appear and you only need to paste the contract address. he token name, symbol and decimal number should be automatically filled but if it's not you can put anything you want (it will only affect how it displays on your wallet). nce you do this, you'll automatically be shown any balance you have of that token and you'll be able to send it to anyone else.nnnd now you have your own crypto token! okens by themselves can be useful asnnvalue echange on local communitiesnn, ways tonnkeep track of worked hoursnnor other loyalty programs. ut can we make a currency have an intrinsic value by making it useful omorrow we'll show how tokens can be used as voting system in order to make collective decisions on the use of funds bynncreating annemocratic utonomous rganizationnn.