Titre: Ethereum Community Survey\nAuteur: George Hallam\nDate: January 9, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/01/09/ethereum-community-survey\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nack in ovember, we created a quick survey for the thereum community to help us gauge how we're doing, what can be improved, and how best we can engage with you all as we move forward towards the genesis block release in arch. e feel it's very important to enable the community to interact with thereum as well as itself, and we hope to offer new and eciting tools to do so using the survey results for guidance.nnhe survey itself consisted of  questions split into two sections thereum as an "rganisation" and thereum as a "echnology".  here was a total of  responses. his represents .% of the currentnnthereum redditnnpopulation, or .% of the currentnnethereumprojectnnfollowers.nnhat country do you currently reside innno, this is where everybody lives. o sum it up by continent - of the  respondents there are  (%) in orth merica,  (%) in urope,  (%) in sia,  (%) in ceana and  (%) in outh merica. o surprises there, though it does show how we - and the crypto space in general - have much work to do in areas south of thennrandt inenn. ne way to go about this is to seed more international thereum meetups. ou can see a map of all the current thereum meetupsnnherenn(e have  in total all over the world from ondon to ew ork to ehran with over  members taking part). f you'd like to start one yourself, please do message us and we can offer further assistance -nninfoethereum.orgnn.nnt's understood that our transparency is very important to the community. o that end, we strive to make much of our internal workings freely available on the internet. s indicated in the chart, most people agree that we are doing just that. owever, more can always be done. e're currently working on a refresh of thennethereum.orgnnwebsite ready for the release of the genesis block. pect much more content and information as we complete this towards the end of anuary. n the meantime, have a look at thennthereum itub epositorynn, or head over to the newnnΞ ÐΞnnwebsite for a greater understanding of the entity that is delivering thereum ., as well as its truly incredible team.nne've always tried to give the community as much information about our financial situation as possible, and from the results it seems like a lot of you agree. or further information on how thereum intends to use the revenue generated in the ther sale as we move forward, check out thennoad apnnand thennĐΞ nn. o learn more about the ther ale itself, have a look at italik'snnther ale ntroductionnn, thennthereum itcoin alletnn, or thennther ale tatistical verviewnn.nnhough most people agree thereum's use cases in society are clear,  wouldn't be so sure we've figured them all out just yet. veryday we're speaking with developers and entrepreneurs via kype or on  (nnoin in your browsernn- #ethereum / #ethereum-dev) who have thought of new and eciting ideas that they are looking to implement on top of thereum - many of which are brand new to us. or a brief overview of some of the use cases we've encountered, check out tephan ual's recent presentation atnnewinancenn.nne're doing our best to keep everyone updated with the plethora of changes, updates and general progression of the project that's been taking place over the recent months. avin ood and eff ilcke especially have written some ecellent blog updates on how things are going in their respective erlin and msterdam ÐΞ ubs.nnΞ ÐΞ's mission statementnnis now proudly presented on the Ξ ÐΞ website for all to see. n detail, it eplains what needs to be achieved as time goes on, but can be summed up as "o research, design and build software that, as best as possible, facilitates, in a secure, decentralised and fair manner, the communication and automatically-enforced agreement between parties."nnuch like the crypto space in general, thereum is somewhat difficult to initially get your head around. o doubt about that, and it's our job to make the process of gaining understanding and enabling participation as easy and intuitive as possible. s mentioned previously, the new look ethereum.org website will be an invaluable tool in helping people access the right information that is applicable to their own knowledge and skill set. lso, in time we aim to create a demy/odacademy like utility which will allow people with skills ranging from none to edi aster to learn how thereum works and how to implement their ideas. n the mean time, a great place to start for those wanting to use thereum is en appler's recentnnutorialsnn.nnhis was an important question as it gave a lot of perspective on what aspects needed to be focused on before genesis, and what (though useful) could be developed afterwards. rom a  point of view, the o team in msterdam is working towards the creation of ist, thereum's "Ðapp avigator". ist's initial design ideas are presented by the ead  esigner, le an de ande innnthis videonn.nnase of installation will factor greatly in user adoption - we cant very well have people recompiling the client every time a new update is pushed! o binaries with internal update systems are in the pipeline. lient eliability (bugs) is being actioned on by utta teiner, the anager of our internal and eternal security audits. e epect thenncommunity bug bounty projectnnto be live by the middle of anuary, so stay tuned and be ready for epic  figure atoshi rewards, leaderboards and more "" prizes.nneveloper tools are on the way too. pecifically, project "i". i supports some rather amazing features, including documentation, a compiler, debugger integration for writing information on code health, valid invariant, code structure and code formatting, as well as variable values and assertion truth annotations. t's a long term project epected to be delivered in the net - months, right now we are very much focused on completing the blockchain. nce complete, we can reallocate our resources to other important projects. ou can find out more in thenni presentationnnfrom ÐΞcon-. or now, documentation is constantly being generated on thennthereum itub ikinn.nnhe blog and social media interaction will continue to deliver thereum content on relevant channels with the aim of reaching the widest range of people as possible.nnithnnmore people owning smartphones than computersnnalready, imagine how prolific they'll will be asnntime goes onnn his will be the case especially in emerging markets such as ndia and igeria, it's likely they'll leapfrog computers to some etent and gain wide adoption very quickly.   mobilennlight clientnnwill be greatly important to the usability of thereum. s part of  and amsung's joint project "nndeptnn" (annnonnplatform which is currently being unveiled atnn nn), an ndroid version of the thereum ava client - ethereumj, is going to bennopen-sourced on itubnn. his will go a long way to getting thereum obile!nnt's interesting to see a very mied bag of responses for this question. s was said previously, thereum's use cases are as wide as they are varied, and it's great to see how many different types of services people are looking to implement on top of thereum. he emphasis on governance based Ðapps highlights thereum's ability to facilitate interactions between the digital and physical world and create autonomously governed communities that can compete with both governments and corporations. rimavera e ilippi and affaele auro investigate this further in thennnternet olicy eview ournalnn.nnhis chart shows a reasonably even spread, we've done our best to make the various clients available on different operating systems. ou can find the lethzero binariesnnherenn, and the ist binariesnnherenn. hese however become obsolete very quickly and may not connect to the test net as development continues, so if you considering using thereum before release, it's well worth while checking thennclient building tutorialsnnto get the most up to date versions of the clients.nnith ist (o), lethzero (++), ythereum (ython) ode-thereum (ode.js), and thereumj (ava), thereum already has a plethora of clients available. hennellow apernnwritten by avin ood is a great reference for the community to create its own clients, as seen with those still under development such as the lojure and bjective  iterations.nns avin ood has mentioned innna previous blogpostnn, utan and  as smart contract languages will be mothballed. erpent will be continued to be developed by italik with his team, and oldity will continue as the primary development language for thereum contracts. ou can trynnolidity in your browsernn, or watch the recentnnvision and roadmapnnpresentation by avin ood and italik uterin at ÐΞcon-.nnhanks to le an de ande for helping with the implementation of the survey and chart graphics. cons retrieved fromnniconsnn. f anyone would like a copy of the raw survey results, feel free to emailnngeorgeethdev.comnn.