Titre: Cut and try: building a dream\nAuteur: Taylor Gerring\nDate: February 9, 2016\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/02/09/cut-and-try-building-a-dream\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nast month marked the  year anniversary of thereum's public announcement at he orth merican itcoin onference in iami, lorida, . mid much rumour and ecitement, a sizeable crowd mobbed the young italik uterin after his on-stage announcement, questioning the merit and his desire to build such a system.nnt can be hard to truly appreciate how far we’ve come in the last couple years. ometimes it feels as if the cryptoeconomic sphere moves at such a blistering speed that weekly news announcements have become the norm rather than the eception. nterest in the field has eploded for lots of great reasons, but none of that particularly matters unless the underlying technology eists. s interested observers, our job is to help manifest the idea of a blockchain-driven world into reality. ith ideas enshrined in annwhite papernn, the time to talk was over. ow was thenntime to buildnn.nn look backnno frame things appropriately, consider that thereum was formally announced on anuary , . ack then, the price of itcoin had recently peaked and was hovering around $. ogecoin was eceptionally popular and began fundraising tonnsponsor the amaican obsled eamnn. lternative uses of "blockchain technology" includednnamecoinnnas decentralized name system atop a global key/value store. n attempt at untraceable messaging was even invented asnnitessagenn. nly a month prior, researchers demonstrated innna papernnthat block times under  second were possible. n short, it seemed there was nothing blockchainsnncouldn’tnndo.nnitalik announcing thereum (arc van der hijs)nnlthough itcoin's speed of settlement was a huge improvement over traditional systems, it was clear that more innovation could be had by further eperimenting with whatever this “blockchain” thing was. t the time, there was much debate about so-called “blockchain bloat” and concerns that additional applications built on the itcoin protocol would cause problems scaling. lready, betting platforms had come under fire for creating lots of low-value transactions. here was a stirring in the bitcoin community that continues to this day.nnith all these possibilities, how could a single protocol be made to accommodate all the varying needs s a first eperiment, itcoin was already gaining quickly in value. hat began as a cypherpunk dream had blossomed into an industry. hanges to the core protocol risked billions in value and there was no clear governance in place for proposing and including changes. ne path to acceptance was forming a consensus around a itcoin mprovement roposal (, for short) and offering the code in a “pull request” for public comment. aking the changes required to support more generalised use would be a radical proposal, to say the least.nnootstrapnny pril of , r. avin ood published thennthereum ellow apernnthat would serve as the technical bible and de-facto specification for the thereum irtual achine (). rom this vantage point, thereum pursued a course of producing implementations that matched a specification, as opposed to being a specification defined by an implementation. ecause itcoin as a protocol was defined by the reference ++ implementation, any ports would have to replicate all logic in intricate detail, including bugs. oday, the itcoin protocol is in a better place, with core consensus features separated from  into a discrete library. urthermore, clients like itcoin (a ava client, written by ike earn) and btcd (a o client) has moved the goal posts beyond a single system language.nnontrast this to the thereum ecosystem which today has no less than  implementations of consensus ++, o, ython, ava, avacript, and askell. hen a discrepancy occurs due to either human or computer languages, a roundtable of client developers can compare results and discuss the ramifications of a particular interpretation so as to determine a specific course of action. ided by automated and random testing, sometimes the result of a consensus failure was not in code, but the documentation itself. onetheless, the benefits of a specification-driven implementation began to shine, helping to neutralise human error as we interpreted words into code.nnthereum ellow apernnoncurrent to this initial development, several legal entities were formed to provide a framework for coordinating the organised effort of building a decentralised pp platform. he result was tiftung thereum being established in une  in ug, witzerland. ith all the paperwork and agreements in place, a crowdsale of ther tokens was held in ummer , based on a proposal laid out earlier in the year. ithin moments of launch, thousands of bitcoin began flowing to a multisig itcoin address, each purchase marking its place in history as supporters of an ambitious vision. n the spirit of complete decentralisation, no database was used, instead relying % on transactions as recorded in the itcoin ledger. f thereum were to build anything, it would be atop the shoulders of giants.nnickstartnns the thereum proof-of-concept (o) series marched forward through the generous efforts of developers around the globe and the ther ale finishing towards the end of summer, the stage was set to eecute on the vision outlaid by italik only a few months earlier. n less than a year, the legal and financial framework was in place to begin full-scale development of a net-generation blockchain platform.nnlmost immediately, the results of the sale were put to use paying back mounting legal debts and also for the months of developer effort that had yet to be compensated. ome had left their job and not seen a single satoshi in their itcoin wallet in a half-year, as others grew concerned about feeding their families and paying their mortgages. imes were tight for everyone involved.nninally, around eptember , the majority of funds would be available to support the comple engineering of bleeding-edge decentralisation technology. orn out of an interest in etending blockchains, thereum commenced a massive hiring effort, attracting developers across a variety of disciplines to carry out the hard work of fully flushing out what were only preliminary ideas.nn group photo (ikipedia)nnnly two months later, in ovember , the majority of the thereum project team was assembled and descended upon erlin to participate in the first thereum conferencennnn. lthough many had spoke via kype, this was a time when most of the project members met for the first time. t this proto-conference, in a modest but beautiful space, developers took turns standing in front of peers eplaining their vision for any given segment of the many protocols that would be necessary to develop “nnebnn”.nnhis was a key time for the project as the general community aniously awaited more refined tools to begin building their own dream. any iterations of protocols and several implementations of any given feature had yet to be developed. o understand this more clearly, it should be acknowledged that thereum had only reached o and many ideas were barely more coherent than theory.nns a team, we were only first starting to work with each other and the many tools and systems required for full-scale development had yet to be put in place. s a project, we identified the need to begin etensive testing and measurement to ensure each of the ideas were performing as epected. f the testing couldn’t prove the theory, the hypothesis was little more than fantasy.nneroic effortsnno it would go for several months through the holidays with increased development occurring early in . round this time, eff ilcke called the o development team together in msterdam to evaluate the state of the software. espite the face-to-face event in erlin a few months earlier, this was the time that the go-ethereum team came together and eperienced the first working hisper pp for in-office chat. t was eceptionally eciting to eperience this vague notion of what the future might hold, but it also eposed our many weak points. his dogfooding was the neus point from which many of the working groups were established to build towards the ist vision.nnn early ist prototypennlready at this point in time, the bug bounty program was in full swing as we sought the most egregious bugs. s eventual users of the system, vigorously seeking problems brought far more benefit than hiding behind ecuses. ecause we were writing consensus software, there was little room for error and we would go as far as randomised fuzz testing to ensure that even unknown unknowns were handled to the best of our ability.nns the software audits progressed, the evrants program began to more publicly emerge with the announcement of thennthereum mbeddednnprogram, making it eceptionally simple to run an thereum node on low-cost aspberry i hardware. t the same time, the teams focused on ensuring a stable feature-rich command line interface () was available for developers to begin working with. t would take only a few more weeks until the eventual lympic testnet was launched, providing a valuable testing bed for client patching and protocol upgrades.nns the suite of software and interfaces eventually marched towards stability and developer confidence grew around what we were building, murmurs of a rontier launch started to permeate the community. espite the ecitement to release early and often, the community backed the developers decision to make sure the security and stability of the software was paramount, deferring to the software & security auditors on what must be changed before a wide-scale release.nnild estnnventually, the most severe problems would be fied and thereum mainnet would launch the beta-esque rontier mere months after many thereum developers met for the first time, ever. he dedication epressed by many of the developers would be a testament to the importance of the project we undertook. t was uly , a mere year since the crowdsale and thereum had a working network. o more could the label “vaporware” be applied to this idea of itcoin .—thereum was real.nnetwork statistics dashboardnnfter a much-deserved reprieve in the summer following the relatively smooth launch of rontier, the development teams refined rough edges in the software and began working towards improved abstractions to better model what the future of thereum might look like.  new & improved thereum allet beta was released based on a more robust toolkit than the prior t versions. his decision would yield huge dividends later as mobile builds would become a high-priority target for the project.nnith the widening interest beyond the core thereum community, it was time to spread our collective wings to help the rest of the world see the same ideas that many early adopters had. ollowing a short delay,nnnnwas announced to take place in ondon, ngland for a week in ovember . lmost  people joined together at this location for an entire week, totaling  talks and topics about the thereum ecosystem.nnull house at nndding to the ecitement, the community gleefully welcomed ick zabo, mogen eap, and representatives fromnnnn,nnicrosoftnn, andnneloittenn. nlike other crypto-conferences, there was little talk of price or speculation. nstead, the focus was squarely on building tools, standards, and shared understanding between technical and business folk.nnomesteadingnnast-forwarding to present day, there is a healthy network with increasing transaction volume along with dozens of pps starting to appear. ith the help of onsensys, one of many organisations in the ecosystem, thereum is already available for rapid deployment on icrosoft zure and through the efforts of lock, thereum can also be deployed on low-resource buntu ore images.  large amount of effort has gone into mobile builds for both thenn++nnandnnonnclients that will become even more important as low-power devices replace traditional desktops for all but the most demanding tasks.nnthereum apps eplosionnnlso rapidly progressing is so-called “light client” functionality along with state-pruning, both of which will allow for resource-constrained devices like phones and watches to process and store the blockchain. ombined with the mobile builds effort and ist developments, the community is pushing thereum to new edges where previous cryptocurrencies haven’t often treaded.nne are now on the precipice of thennomestead hard forknn, tweaking minor issues before releasing what will be considered the “stable” version of the network. ecause the initial launch of rontier network was significantly more stable than planned for, relatively few changes are being implemented for omestead a block difficulty change, addition of a new opcode, and some networking tweaks.nneyond the immediate planned updated, there’s a bright future of developments ahead including solutions for scalability and a move from wasteful proof-of-work (o) to a more earth-friendlynnproof-of-stakenn(o). hat began as an abstract model in one human head has evolved to a tremendous amount ofnndeveloper effortnnto see that vision through, and it eists today thanks largely to the active community with a healthy attitude for creating something meaningful. n , thereum made a transition from an idea to reality, backed by a growing ecosystem striving for something more.nnreaming forwardnnhe fundamental insight italik described in his paper was how to abstract decentralised transfer of value to a generalised state transition function, supporting any application. ombined with a peer-to-peer network, thereum strives to do everything itcoin does and more. ut our effort isn’t complete and there still remains much innovation to uncover.nn“sn’t it astonishing that all these secrets have been preserved for so many years just so that we could discover them.”nn–nnrville rightnnhe implicit promise of upgrading itcoin was to prove feasibility in a sidechain for a chance to have the functionality merged back into the reference client. his promise has yet to be fulfilled and the result is a proliferation of eternal eperimentation. lthough much hullabaloo has been made about "nnthe developer that quit bitcoinnn", obviously the itcoin community isn't dead, nor is its intrinsic use as a scarce digital resource valueless. atoshi is a hero for recognising how to string several technologies together to create a truth protocol that no one eplicitly controls. ut the dream for itcoin to be thennonlynntransformative technology has been dead for a long time. e should instead embrace our new reality and look forward to all the possibilities that this important first attempt enabled.