Titre: Statement Objecting To EME as a W3C Recommendation\nAuteur: James Pitts\nDate: August 21, 2017\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2017/08/21/statement-objecting-w3c-publishing-eme-recommendation\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhe oundation believesnnncrypted edia tensionsnn() should not be published as a  ecommendation, and we are now making public the formal objection the thereum oundation submitted to the  opposing the recommendation of .nns a member of the , the thereum oundation contributes to the standards-making process and votes on matters such as the  recommendation. any developers and researchers at the thereum oundation conduct security research and build software that use web technology, and from that perspective, we have objections to  as well asnnigital ights anagementnn() in general. ost if not all people who use web browsers are affected by .nnhe direct result of ’s success up until now, is that browser developers have already installed potentially insecure  technology since there were no options to disable it in any of the major browsers. ven though  was only recently approved as a recommended standard, closed-source  implementations have been present in our browsers,nneven open-source browsers such as irefonn, for many years.nns developers, researchers and community members, we have already been subjected to objectionable  implementations and we believe efforts should be made to stem further adoption. n other words, we feel the recommendation of  as a standard is a move in the wrong direction as it inhibits thennpen ebnn, and is inconsistent with thenncore values, mission and design principles of nn. he statement published below sets out the reasons for thereum oundation’s objections and why we feel the  should not continue with a recommendation of  as a  standard.nnhe following statement was submitted to the  with annormal bjectionnnon pril , . lease note that edits have been made for clarification and legibility purposes.nnhe thereum oundation respectfully opposes publishing ncrypted edia tensions () as a ecommendation and requests that this effort be discontinued.nnhe thereum oundation aims to build a more globally accessible, more free, and more trustworthy nternet. e cannot work to fulfill our mission without objecting to . f recommended by the ,  and the ontent ecryption odule () implementations it sanctions, will reduce accessibility, curtail freedom on the nternet, undermine security research, and even erode trust among users and developers in the greater nternet community. f recommended,  will also violate many important aspects of 's own mission statement and design principles.nnroblem  addresses use-cases outside of the domain of the pen eb.nnhe  has historically provided ecommendations for the pen eb platform. owever, 's specification of this manner of interaction, such as the one with , is unprecedented and poses a concern, especially as it supports an opaque, non-open technology. hat policies are in place to limit this epansion of the 's ecommendations into the non-open web oftware that is both outside of the  mission and also highly objectionable to large numbers of  members should not be addressed by  ecommendations.nnroblem -specified  impedes legitimate use, with little gained as a result.nne believe that the benefits gained by owners of media from  implementations are not worth the limitations eperienced by users.  does not offer much to hinder copyright infringement. opyright infringers will not likely evade  if the media they want is widely available through alternative sources. hile offering few copyright protection benefits,  denies users valuable functionality including etending, commenting on, annotating, modifying content for artistic reasons, or modifying content to enable access for people with disabilities. ll of these uses, normally held in high regard in the  ecommendation process, are blocked by .nne feel  ecommendations should not specify, even if indirectly through , the implementation or enabling of software that blocks legitimate functionality for users.nnroblem  does not grow the web.nne believe that the long-term growth referred to in the mission statement of the  largely refers to the potential for the web to be used in new and unforeseen ways. 's contribution to growth only benefits non-etensible, non-interoperable, non-open web content, which does little for network effects. he growth mission of the  is therefore not served if  becomes a ecommendation.nnroblem  undermines security.nnn order to maintain a secure pen eb, security researchers must be able to perform their work in both a technical and a legal sense. y officially making a ecommendation,  compels security researchers to perform security analyses of all major implementations of that ecommendation. n recommending , the  is therefore eposing legitimate security researchers in the community to potential legal liability and even prosecution in the nited tates.nne understand and appreciate the serious efforts made by members of thenn edia tensions orking roupnnto address the eposure of security researchers. owever, consensus could not be reached about annnlectronic rontier oundationnn() proposed covenant in which  members and their affiliations would agree to "non-aggression" with respect to bringing  ... §  actions against security researchers.nnf anything, now is a time the  should take a stronger position to defend legitimate security research when nternet users around the world feel less secure and less protected than ever.nnroblem  constrains the web to follow specific eisting business models rather than to enable new forms of interaction.nnhe outcome of implementing  in web browsers would essentially set as a standard, the current proprietary systems and the related ways they interact with users and sell media.  would inhibit potential models of a future decentralized web where blockchains and decentralized technologies could enable new business models and property rights management.nny recommending , the  is encouraging browser vendors to install software that lacks transparency and disclosure to the user, which is counter to the tradition of the pen eb and what many people hope the net generation of technology will bring.nnhe  must be guided by its mission, design principles, and values.nn ecommendation by the  carries a lot of weight. e feel the organization should therefore not specify nor guide technologies such as  that do not conform to the 's core values as epressed in its mission and design principles, especially when the technology in question undermines security, limits legitimate use, and offers little potential for epanding the web.