Titre: Ethereum Foundation 2020 Spring Update\nAuteur: Ethereum Foundation Team\nDate: Team on May 19, 2020\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/05/19/ethereum-foundation-spring-2020-update\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\no the users and the buildersnn,nne’ve said it before and we’ll say it againnnthereum’s future is brightnn, and this year we are seeing much of that future come to life as the thereum ecosystem builds on a foundation laid by dedicated research and development over the last years.nnhis update will focus on how the thereum oundation aims to help further thereum’s progress, on what we’ve been working on in terms of allocations and more, and onnnwhynnour outlook is brighter now more than ever.nnho we are, and where we’ve beennnhe focus of the thereum oundation’s work as a non-profit remains only on doing what is best for thereum. nd we remain aware that what began as a small open-source project in  grew into the biggest community in the industry. thereum’s unique advantage is what we last year referred to as the global collection of developers, entrepreneurs, researchers, and passionate users that make up our ever-growing family.nne often aim to work on the things that either only the oundation can do, or that it can do better than others to support thereum and its community. ut thanks to this ecosystem of participants, we must begin with a thank you for elevating yourselves and for further decentralizing thereum each day. o all that have continued to build in the face of unique challenges your accomplishments and ability to reach milestones have been and continue to be breathtaking. nd to those users that have helped over the last year to eplode activity around real-world applications already thriving on thereum your support and engagement inspire us to work even harder to maimize thereum’s potential.nnith that, we’ll outline below how the thereum oundation will further its work as a resource allocator, and talk about how that process works. s an advocate for thereum both within our ecosystem and to the outside world, we’ll also cover how and where to follow the latest progress, all in the year that we’ll realize the long-awaited beacon chain launch and proof of stake on thereum.nnhere we’re going, how we get therennhe oundation itself is more akin to a bazaar than it is a cathedral. hat means that every release and function that eist under the “” label are really different groups and teams acting in various capacities to help to move thereum forward. his is how we view thereum as well, and just as thereum has multiple layers, so does the thereum oundation's portfolio of allocations.nnith that in mind, today we’re going to speak a bit about how those allocation decisions are made.nns a whole, no single or centralized distribution method has been a cure-all for the many recurring research and development teams, community building efforts, or independent builders that we support. his has become clear through a great deal of iteration over time that has helped us to develop a multi-pronged approach to allocating resources.nnet’s dive in by imaging the entire budget allocation process as a layered cake that helps us to make decisions. ere’s how it works.nnype  ecurring upportnnreas of recurring support are our first stop, and the most familiar process for most readers. ome supported teams included here, like eth and olidity, represent where things began. thers, like th. and tateless research, the ’s th esearch team and formal verification (among others) came later but are essential for thereum to succeed. lso under this branch are administrative and operations roles, like the people behind the  team, communications and community, or administration and legal.nnhere was a time when the  was home to these and other (most) supported thereum projects, but the oundation’s purpose has changed alongside the larger ecosystem. oday, these teams fit into a category of support that  is best-suited to provide at this time.nnn the last two years, the oundation has given more autonomy to ype  teams over their own budgets. e think that this structure better reflects how supported teams are actually operatingnnas teamsnn.nnach year, teams are asked to submit roadmaps and budget proposals, while others work to evaluate and approve their asks by evaluating their own needs. hink of this as a system of checks and balances where there are few enough for us to work together on a personal level. his way, we see which projects are working, what needs help, where the most progress and new achievements can be made, and what types of support help teams reach those goals.nnlsewhere, we’ve pushed opportunities outward as stated on previous occasions, taking an ecosystem-wide approach that helped to remove the line between internal and eternal. his helps us to minimize our operational footprint, and avoid having too much sway over developmental progress.nns time progressed, this outward movement has taken on a few different forms, resulting in the other types of allocation that we’ll speak to today. ach of these can generally be thought of asnnecosystem supportnn. o help manage the net area of focus, ype  funding, the aptly-named cosystem upport rogram ( for short) leads the way.nnype  ublic rant rocessnn bit more on the  team!nnince the  rants rogram evolved into thenncosystem upport rogramnn, the definition of resources has epanded to include both financial and non-financial support. heir aim is to allocate resources where they will have the biggest impact on thereum’s growth and adoption.nnecently, thenncosystem upport rogram llocation pdatenndetailed how we allocated grants to eternal teams in . oing forward, allocation updates will be posted quarterly, with thenn updatennalready live. he  team will also be making an effort in the coming months to share more about how non-financial support is allocated, and how teams have made use of these resources!nnne of the most important functions of  is to epand access to support, using a public inquiry process to discover and engage new projects. he cosystem upport team evaluates proposals that come in through thennpublic inquiry formnn, incorporating peer review, discussions with the applicant, and epert advisors as needed to form a plan to help teams succeed. hen making decisions about allocations, financial and otherwise, the  team digs into everything from timeline, eecution and team structure, to available alternatives, potential milestones and impact forecasts in order to find the right fit. n short, ’s decisions move through a more thorough process than ever before, designed to help projects at any stage of completion to refine their ideas and connect with the support they need.nnf course, it’s hard to imagine that all needed “ecosystem support” allocations could be initiated through incoming public inquiries,nnwhich are by definition reactivenn. here will inevitably remain neglected areas and unfulfilled needs in the thereum ecosystem that require a more proactive approach that builds on our eperiences with both ypes  and  to create something new, which brings us to ype .nnype  elegated omain llocationsnnmagine an eample where a new and potentially game-changing ayer  scaling solution gains steam, but it suffers from an initial lack of organization and funding. n ype , this new area of focus would be called a “domain”, and the tool available to us in this case is to “delegate” to one or more confidence-inspiring domain eperts the allocation and milestone-setting abilities that they need to make progress, whether they work for the  or not.nnhese domain eperts can identify specific problems to solve, and connect with builders to get work funded through grant-based allocations. mportantly, they can do so without  onboarding new teams, and with a more proactive, targeted, and collaborative approach than is feasible for the open grant process.nnach domain tends to begin with smaller budgets and grants, such as those for the local grants programs last year in outh orea, apan, and aiwan, but these can grow in size over time. amples of more mature domains include applied zero knowledge work, eth coordination, developer eperience, thennthereum.orgnnproject, and more.nnhile ype  and  represent a diverse range of allocations, frankly, our team will always have blindspots in what we lead on — this is something that no organization can overcome on its own. o what about everything else hat’s where you come in.nnype  hird arty undingnnedistribution to independent funding models and groups can help us to even further decentralize our allocation process. hile we’re proud of how refined and targeted our efforts are becoming, redistribution helps funds reach where some of the ’s teams may have never known they needed to go.nnamples here include community driven grant matching, like itcoin’s  rounds (where you can help to decide how funding is distributed) and  funding, like oloch. hird party allocators fit into ype  too. hese include our support for ’s rypto und, which selects and distributes funds to projects that their team works to identify, and to lobal, which retains independence and redistributes funds via hack bounties, among other activities. dmittedly, it’s still early-days for ype , but our work in these areas are well underway.nnhile this may appear eperimental or radical to some, there are many members within the thereum ecosystem that have long sought out ways to guide funding efforts, and now some of their decisions have already opened new doors.nnome of this work is complementary to ’s other funding types, but may have been edge cases not covered by ypes -, while other pieces may be controversial or even competitive. ut while we have an opinion on how the initial funding decisions are made (in an initial transfer to a , for eample), what's decided after this point is in your hands, which has been a net-positive in terms of innovation and participation.nne know that we must also ensure allocation accountability along the way, which can be challenging, but we can overcome those difficulties by diversifying how we fund. amples include smaller initial disbursements to identify strong performers, and diversification of sources like those to s and matching programs. ogether, these approaches help to limit areas of risk like popularity contests and groupthink, and help us to reach a healthy equilibrium.nnorking togethernn high-level view of these efforts have helped us to see that, while every allocation-type has its benefits and limitations, they are symbiotic and help to create a stronger funding model together.nnype nn↑ s the only area that is by default recurring, this allows teams to comfortably focus on long-term roadmaps.nn↓ ot everything can be solved through hiring and team-building in a fast moving ecosystem, since teams often have a long-term focus.nnype nn↑ nquiry-based allocations can be more diverse and targeted.nn↓ ot everything can be covered through reactive grants, and the team is limited by what is received from across the ecosystem.nnype nn↑ llows for more proactive prioritizing by those with the epertise, with added fleibility to boot.nn↓ hese projects are often eperimental, and the rate of ype  funding can be limited by ’s capacity to identify appropriate needs and fits.nnype nn↑ eople-powered, and where we see things trending over time.nn↓ ighly eperimental, with a delay in measurable impact/return for thereum.nnach option that we have available to us helps  to more effectively empower others to innovate, and as we’ve matured, the distribution of our cake has continued to evolve toonns you can see above, prior to the launch of the  rants rogram (a precursor to ) in , nearly all funding was geared toward " teams". n , substantial allocations were made to invest in quality work in areas determined to have the greatest need. his helped to create a firmer foundation, on top of which the energy and sheer number of new contributors could be more sustainable into the future. e’re glad to see that some of that timely decision-making is now paying off as big changes soon come to life on the public network.nnn short, while gradual shifts toward ype , and later to ypes  and  are relatively new, they are the start of a trend that will continue in the near-future, and we know that it’s for the better.nnhat’s ahead in nnhis year, the oundation is in a position to comfortably meet or eceed the commitment made last ay. pecifically, we’ll likely fall within the range of - million  in total allocations, depending on the need of the ecosystem, the number and quality of  applicants, and progress in scaling our new allocation types.nnur support for efforts related to eth will also continue to ramp up as needed. dditionally, our funding for eth. related research and development remains firm at this critical moment, and we recognize (just as some of eth’s progress relies on tateless thereum) that we can't focus on one without the other.nnn our resources, the oundation has available to it about .% of all  at the time of this post. his number has steadily decreased since the launch of the network years ago as we’ve continued to spend in line with our mission to grow and advance the network and ecosystem.nnollow the journey, or come alongnneep up to date with cosystem upportnneginning this year, we’re increasing communication around the assistance provided by the , including highlighting milestones and updates from supported projects.nno share all of this, the team launched a major update tonnthe  websitenn. hese changes improve the information that was already available, and add new sections to make it easier to follow alongnnn thennfeatured projects pagennyou can learn more about some of the projects we’ve supportednnhennfront pagennis your source for the latest news on the programnn newnn“wishlist”nnincludes some of the areas for support on which we’re focusing in the near future.nnew sections will update and rotate regularly, and there are more additions in the pipeline, so make sure to keep an eye out for updates. o stay up to date on even more current events, follownn_nnon witter, and sign up to get  newsnnto your inbonn!nnnd of course we want to fund quality work that helps thereum to grow and thrive, and we’d appreciate your help to identify those builders and teams in need of support. f this applies to you or someone you know, we invite you tonnget in touch todaynn.nnore from supported teamsnne also invite all fans of thereum to keep up to date on the progress of network-level efforts through multiple new series right here on thenn lognn, brought to you by the researchers and developers that are bringing the future of thereum to life.nnhe eth. iles, with riffin chiba otchkissnnearn more about what’s happening with thereum today, tateless thereum research and more.nnecent pdatesnnhe . iles  rimer for the itness pecificationnn- --nnhe . iles he pdated tateless ech reenn- --nnhe . iles tateless ummit ummarynn- --nnth uick pdate, with anny yannns the title implies, follow along for the latest news and breakthroughs on eth leading up to the launch of the beacon chain.nnecent pdatesnnth quick update no. nn- --nnth quick update no. nn- --nnth quick update no. nn- --nnalidated - taking on eth, with arl eekhuizennnt’s about time to put your ther to use in a whole new way. earn more about staking on eth and the science behind it with regular updates including those below.nnecent pdatesnnalidated, staking on eth # - harding onsensusnn- --nnalidated, staking on eth # - wo ghosts in a trench coatnn- --nnalidated, staking on eth # - ncentivesnn- --nnand more…nnnd stay tuned for more for continued supported-team updates from other -supported efforts, and find the latest release here!nnver the last year, more and more essential teams have continued to populate our distributed ecosystem, and we’re proud of the strength that comes from having a distributed network without a center. ut as an entity, we’ll continue our work to provide opportunity for everyone to create without enveloping each project under one large tent. n the year ahead, we’ll witness the launch of eth, which will be powered by multiple clients — all of which will have been built and maintained by independent teams.nnuntil then…nne’ll primarily keep our heads down and continue our work in and around the thereum ecosystem, but epect to hear more about new programs and new ways to get involved soon! or now, keep posted to the  log andnnthereumnn, dive into the newnnthereum.org community pagenn, and get ready for big news coming soon from the cholars and evcon teams too.nnnd if you’re interested in seeing something that we haven’t covered today, just ask! hether you have questions, concerns, asks or recommendations, feel free to reach out tonnpressethereum.orgnnwith your suggestions. e'll get back with feedback or with eternal resources from a large community that continues to produce incredible material that we want to support, and we even may publish a & in the months to come with some of what’s received.nnntil then, our focus will remain on performing where we're needed most, and on doing what only the  can. e can’t wait to see where your work and the rest of this year takes thereum, and we hope to see you all along the way.nn🦄