Titre: Spotlight on Kenya: Microinsurance for Every Farmer\nAuteur: Benson Njuguna & Team Next Billion\nDate: Njuguna & Team Next Billion on December 7, 2021\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2021/12/07/fellows-spotlight-on-kenya\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nn ub-aharan frica, only % of  million smallholder farmers arenninsurednn. wning  acre of land and earning approimately $. per person per day characterize annsmallholder farmernn. mallholder farmers often own a miture of cash crops and subsistence or non-commercial farming and, they lack the financial and technological resources of large-scale industrial farms. s etreme weather events become ever more frequent due to climate change, one flood or drought can push such farmers into the spiraling cycle of poverty without protection by means of crop insurance.nnhe following is an update from thereum oundation ellownnenson jugunann.nnenson is on a mission to elevate humanity from an economic standpoint through innovative ideas driven by technology. e is a usiness ransformation pecialist atnn fricann, a microinsurance service provider based in enya. or more about thennthereum oundation ellowship rogramnn,nnread this blog postnn.nnoadblocks for armers rust and ffordabilitynnusinesses like  frica have supported farmers by delivering risk management solutions and agricultural insurance products that address the precarious and uncertain livelihoods that farmers face. ne challenge in this field is that farmers have a negative preconception of insurance providers due to a history of delayed or absent payouts. armers are unaccustomed to being given crucial information related to their policy - even something as simple as confirmation about whether they will receive a payout for losses incurred.nnt  frica, a typical smallholder farmer with a half-acre plot pays about nnnn,nnpnnennrnnsnnennannsnnonnnnn,nnfnnonnrnnwnnennanntnnhnnennrnn−nninnnnndnnennnncnnrnnonnpnninnnnnsnnunnrnnannnnncnnenn(nnanntnnynnpnnennonnfnninnnnnsnnunnrnnannnnncnnenntnnhnnanntnnmnnannknnennsnnpnnannynnonnunntnnsnnonnnnntnnhnnennbnnannsnninnsnnonnfnnpnnrnnenndnnenntnnennrnnmnninnnnnenndnnwnnennanntnnhnnennrnndnnanntnnannlnninnknnennrnnanninnnnnfnnannlnnlnn)nn.nnnnonnsnnsnnennsnnfnnrnnonnmnnanndnnvnnennrnnsnnennwnnennanntnnhnnennrnncnnonnnnndnninntnninnonnnnnsnnrnnennsnnunnlnntnninnnnnannpnnannynnonnunntnnonnfnnannbnnonnunntnnnnnnnn, per season, for weather-inde crop insurance (a type of insurance that makes payouts on the basis of predetermined weather data like rainfall). osses from adverse weather conditions result in a payout of about nnnn,nnpnnersennannsonnnnn,nnfnnornnwnnennanntnnhnnernn−nninnndnnennnncronnpnninnnsnnunnrnnannncenn(nnanntnnynnpnneonnfnninnnsnnunnrnnannncenntnnhanntnnmaknnesnnpnnannyonnunntnnsonnnnntnnhnnennbannsnninnsonnfnnpnnrenndnnenntnnernnminnnenndnnwnnennanntnnhnnernndnnanntnnannlnniknnernnainnnfnnannllnn)nn.nnnnossesnnfnnronnmanndnnvnnersennwnnennanntnnhnnerconnnnndnninntnninnonnnnnsresnnunnltnninannpnnannyonnunntnnonnfnnabnnonnunntnnnnnnnn, which is just enough to cover farm inputs such as seeds and fertilizers.nnor insurance businesses, such low premiums mean that scale is needed to break even, much less to turn a profit. aving on costs through digitization and automation is crucial, not only for insurance businesses’ commercial viability, but also to make sure that farmers can afford the insurance premium.nnhe roblem ld rop nsurance ayout ystemnnvery farmer's life is shaped by two seasons in enya and the region the long rain season and the short rain season. he long rain season begins in pril and ends in uly, while the short rain season starts in ctober and ends in ecember. or the first cycle of the long rain season in pril, farmers begin to buy insurance. o get started, they are required to fill out many forms. nce the forms are complete and the insurance product has been purchased,  frica monitors the risk and climate until the end of the season. n short, if there is a weather event during the period over which a farmer purchased insurance, they will be paid only after the following season has already started. owever, without insurance, the farmers would have suffered financial loss and struggled to continue farming into the following season.nnhe olution 's  nn farmer in mbu ounty, enya is activating his insurance policy, using a scratch card included in the bag of seeds he purchased. (hanks to cre frica for supplying this photo)nnhe   product, which literally means insurance in small installments, is one of the newest insurance solutions from  frica. t was implemented in partnership withnntheriscnn, whose team has developed a decentralized insurance platform on thereum.nnarmers seeking coverage with   first buy seeds for the season from a partnering agricultural supplier. ach bag of seeds includes a scratch card with a unique registration code. or the pilot, we included the price of basic insurance in the seed price, but farmers are also able to purchase additional coverage through a mobile payment network (-).nnhen planting the seeds, the farmer will use / to activate the insurance policy. uring the  activation, their location, and phone number, along with all other relevant details obtained from the registration code (such as the type of crop and amount covered) are passed into the policy smart contract on thennai chainnn this process is known as triangulation and results in the automatic creation of a new policy. he farmer immediately receives a tet message informing him/her that the policy is active.nnhe alternative system monitors and compares actual and historical weather data that triggers the approval of a claim. ere, the payout is not based on human assessment, but rather on pre-defined "windows" or phases throughout the farming seasons (i.e. germination, vegetation, flowering, ecess rain). s long as the weather and climate data collected meets the criteria agreed in the policy, the claim is approved then, the farmers receive payments during the ongoing season and do not have to wait until the end of the season, as was previously the case. he farmers will receive an  after the policy was triggered and can check the status of their insurance policy via a mobile device.nnur goal is to gain every farmer’s confidence by providing more relevant information, faster payouts, reducing costs for the insurance product as well as an audit trail for accountability.nnirst payout made via blockchainnnarlier this year, we made our first payout to a farmer, amuel, who bought an insurance policy for maize seeds!nns of today,  mid-season payouts, totaling  , (nnnnnnnnnn)nn,nnannnnndnnnn,nnnnennnnndnn−nnsnnennannsnnonnnnnpnnannynnonnunntnnsnn,nntnnonntnnannlnninnnnngnnnnnnnnnn,nnnn(nn ), and , end-season payouts, totaling  , (nnnnnnnnnn)nn,nnannndnnnn,nnnnennnnndnn−nnsennannsonnnnnpnnannyonnunntnnsnn,nntnnonntnnannlnninnngnnnnnnnn,nnnn(nn, ) were made.nnet hurdles and stepsnnhough this new system addresses eisting challenges and improves the current systems in enya (and soon in anzania and ambia), it has not been without hiccups. e are still a long way from a fully ‘decentralized’ insurance solution. ayouts, for eample, though technically possible, are not fully automated yet. ne of the main challenges remains improving processing times for claims approvals. ust like in the old payout system, claims end up sitting on someone’s desk, waiting for approval. ikewise, the parties outside of our project (e the insurer, the re-insurer who support us in the claims processing, and regulator) also have their own standalone system, and there are still aspects which become bottlenecks as they require a manual approval process. ooking ahead, we will share relevant information regarding policies with all stakeholders. ith direct access to one system through customised dashboards, we imagine each stakeholder accessing one source with a complete audit trail.nn’m hopeful that our   insurance product can serve as a successful model to revitalize the much needed trust between farmers and insurance providers.  took up computer sciences to help my community, and realised from an early age that technology was needed to allow countries like enya to be part of the global market.  am ecited to be a part of that, and to be working toward a future where millions more family farmers and billions of people in developing countries eperience the beginnings of decentralization.nne hope you'll continue to stay connected with thennellowship rogramnn, and we'd love to hear from you if you're looking to get in touch by email atnnfellowshipethereum.orgnn. inally, connect withnnenson on witternn, or reach outnnonline to contact other ellowsnn, or to learn more about the program.