Titre: The State of Eth2, Jan 2021\nAuteur: Danny Ryan\nDate: January 20, 2021\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2021/01/20/the-state-of-eth2-january-2021\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nt the start of ecember, the thereum community bootstrapped the new beacon chain proof-of-stake consensus mechanism -- the foundation of thereum's long-term and sustainable home. he launch was a resounding success, and the operation of the beacon chain has proved, thus far, stable and robust.nns  write these words, the beacon chain is live with more thannn. nnsecuring its consensus. o this is the "state of eth" today. ut what's net hat's on the horizon, and where are we goingnnhis post aims to provide high level contet on the state of thereum's eth upgrade --nnan overhaul of thereum's core consensus to provide a morennsustainablenn,nnsecurenn, andnnscalablennhome for thereum and its communitynn.nnhis post doesnnnotnngo deep into technical details, nor does it aim to be comprehensive. f you're in search of a more granular account of all things eth,  recommend checking out en dgington'snnhat's ew in thnnand my "eth quick update" series on thenn blognn.nnisclaimer this is hownn personally see thingsnntodaynn. here are many voices and opinions driving the ever growing, ever evolving eth research process. his is just a snapshot of a slice of an interpretation. njoy!nneth + eth  thereumnnhe terms "eth" and "eth" are misnomers. f  had my way, 'd toss them out forever, but the terms are pretty ubiquitous at this point so let's at least discuss what they mean.nnhese designations -- eth / eth -- imply a false sequentiality. hey imply that eth will be deprecated in favor of eth, that one is being left behind for the other. nstead, the terms actually representnndifferent layers of the stacknn.nnth is primarily the operation and upgrading of thereum'snnuser-layernn-- state, transactions, accounts -- all the things the end-user considers when interacting with thereum. th on the other hand is a series of upgrades meant to overhaul thereum'snncore consensusnn-- to move from the energy-hungry, inefficient proof-of-work to a more sustainable, scalable proof-of-stake. nd what do we primarily want to come to consensus on with this upgraded consensus mechanism he eth user-layer!nnhis relative isolation of concerns (user-layer vs core consensus) has allowed for thereum (eth) to keep chugging along while simultaneously supporting a major overhaul of thereum's core consensus (eth) in a relatively de-risked fashion. nd, in the future, this isolation of concerns might support more specialization across the stack and software components. he heroes (eth client devs) that keep thereum alive and well today can continue to focus on user-layer optimizations and stability, while the eth engineering teams can do what they do best -- build sophisticated proof-of-stake consensus.nnfter the merge, an thereum client will use the best from eth and eth in a modular fashion. or a high level discussion on what thisnnmightnnlook like in practice, check out my ethresearch post on thenneth+eth lient elationshipnn(also check out mynn'eth + eth  thereum' talk at nlinennwhere  belabor this point).nneth  consensusnnhen we talk about "eth", we mean software and protocol upgrades of thereum's core consensus mechanism. oundationally, eth is the swap of thereum's consensus from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake and the addition of a sharded data-layer for scalability gains. f proof-of-work is the rocket ship blasting thereum out of arth's atmosphere, then eth's proof-of-stake beacon chain is the permanent space habitat where the rocket will eventually dock for a sustainable and spacious home.nnf you take a look at the sophistication that is an eth client today, it is entirely in the management of consensus -- finality, fork choice rule, validators, and incentives.nneth  user_layernnhen we talk about "eth", we mean the thereum proof-of-work chain and all of the eisting applications and tools deployed on mainnet. hen we discuss upgrades to eth and bigger "eth" items, we are referencing things almost entirely in the "user-layer". hat is -- state, contracts, eecution, transactions, etc. f consensus is the brain, the user layer is the body almost all upgrades to thereum since it's inception have been directed at the body, and the (relatively small) brain of proof-of-work has remained stable.nnf you take a look at the sophistication that is an eth client today (i.e.nngethnn,nnnethermindnn,nnbesunn,nnopenethereumnn,nnturbo-gethnn), the lions share of the optimization goes into the management of this user-layer -- efficiently accessing/writing the large user state, optimizing eecution, safely managing the transaction mempool, etc.nnn a nutshell, the thereum of tomorrow replaces the brain of thereum (with a sustainable and secure proof-of-stake) while keeping the body we know intact. his translates into uninterrupted contracts and applications with stable s and tools (seennikhail's demonnof using annnunmodifiednnmetamask to interact with an eth+eth merge testnet).nnonsensus, but on whatnn common misunderstanding of the launch of the beacon chain is that "it doesn't do anything", and my response is "that's eactly the point!".nnhe beacon chain, at it's core, is a proof-of-stake consensus mechanism secured by validators that have staked . s of today, the only thing that this consensus mechanism comes to consensus on is itself. t does not, yet, come to consensus on anything that end users care about -- the user-layer (e.g. transactions, user accounts, smart contracts, etc).nnhis is by designnn.nnhe thereum network secures hundreds of billions (€/$/Ɖ) in assets and user activity, and thus the path to upgrade its core consensus (although radical in scope) must be conservative and iterative in rollout.nnn sumnntep one ]nn-- come to consensus in a decentralized and secure fashion.nntep two  ]nn-- come to consensus on items valuable to the thereum ecosystem (a) the thereum network/state of today (i.e. eth) and (b) the sharded data of tomorrow.nnonsensus on thereum (eth)nnirst and foremost, eth is for thereum. he beacon chain was bootstrapped and is run by the community and ultimately isnnfor the communitynnand its eisting applications, contracts, and tools.nnhe hotswap of thereum's consensus from proof-of-work to the beacon chain's proof-of-stake will provide a more secure and sustainable home for both today and tomorrow's decentralized applications. y swapping the consensus mechanism while holding the rest of the protocol (the user-layer) stable, thereum will provide an uninterrupted and continuous eperience for eisting users and applications. efore the swap, applications will continue to be secured and processed by proof-of-work, while immediately after the swap they will be secured and processed by the beacon chain. isting s and tools will largely be unchanged and in general applicationsnnwill just worknn.nnhis work is in progress with a merged geth+teku (eth+eth) client running private testnets today. e're looking forward to releasing a more public playground soon along with some early specifications so that more clients (both eth and eth) can get in on the action.nnhe safety and stability of the beacon chainnnhrough , the beacon chain will continue to be battle-hardened, evaluated, and refined for the eventual merge of eth into eth.nnne of the necessary criteria for the merge is time. he beacon chain needs to run in production for a sufficient stretch of time to demonstrate its stability and robustness. eyond that time-stability requirement,  epect detailed network/load analysis, additional testing/fuzzing, and etensive merge testnets.nnharded datannn addition to a secure and sustainable home, thereum also needs annscalablennhome.nnt is abundantly clear that thereum  today will not, alone, provide the throughput needed to support the global demand for decentralized applications. lthough thereum's current  coupled with  scalability techniques (rollups, channels, etc) will help massively in the net  months, even then thereum will continue to see demand outstrip supply as global adoption continues.nno complement the eciting  rollup ecosystem that creates scalability through the use of  data, eth aims to come to consensus on a scalable, sharded data layer.nnhat said, coming to consensus on shardednndatannisnnmuchnnsimpler than coming to consensus on shardednnstatenn, both in terms of core consensus compleity as well as the compleity eposed to the end user. t the same time, this scalable  data multiplies the scalability gains of  rollup adoption.nnhere is optimism that the merge plus sharded data will providennfunctional escape velocitynnand ultimately get us to where we want to be. hat is not to say that a sharded user-layer (user state and transactions across multiple shards) is entirely out of the question, just that today it is currently on the back-burner as we bring simpler yet powerful upgrades to thereum.nnheck out italiks post --nn ollup entric oadmapnn-- or his talk --nncaling thereum in  and eyondnnfor more behind the reasoning here.nnpgrades along the waynn first set of upgrades to the beacon chain is actively being spec'd and discussed. ome of the changes proposed are iterative improvements to validator incentives and state management, while others bring new, but relatively modest, features to the beacon chain -- e.g. native light client support.nnuch of the conversation around these iterative upgrades is taking place in thenneth specs reponnas well as in thennth & discordnn.  epect client teams and other contributors to share more about these as they solidify in the coming month.nnhis first upgrade to the beacon chain will also serve as something of a "warm-up" for both eth client developers, as well as for the community of stakers. ith a more ambitious upgrades of the merge and sharding in sight, starting with a smaller upgrade is prudent.nnhe state of eth clientsnnn general, we are in a great place with eth clients. e have four production mainnet clients (nnimbusnn,nnekunn,nnighthousenn, andnnrysmnn), each with a share of validator usage. dditionally,nnodestarnnis currently running mainnet in more of an alpha state while continuing to provide ecellent  tools and libraries to the growing eth developer ecosystem.nnhere is continued work on performance and stability across the board, and there are still gains to be had in terms of client diversity. ut all in all, we're seeing a rich ecosystem of both clients and stakers.nnlient diversitynns far as we can tell, client diversity is not optimal today. ccording to some estimates, rysm nodes account for at least % of mainnet nodes, and although this does not map  to the amount of stake being secured by each client, it is likely directionally representative.nnith four production mainnet clients, the ideal distribution is closer to equal weight (%) across all clients, and certainly less than % for any one client. iven the state of eth clients, this is achievable, but it will take the concerted effort of community members and institutional stakers to seek out and adopt the clients with lower shares of the network. s someone who has operatednnallnnfour clients in the past,  can attest -- they are all stable and performant, and each has an enthusiastic and welcoming team dedicated to making life as easy as possible for you.nnlient development in nnlient teams will spend much of  improving security and stability of mainnet clients while at the same time pushing toward production implementations of the various upgrades discussed above. n early , much of this will be & as specs are vetted and refined, but in the latter half of the year, we'll begin to see production testnets of merge and/or sharding upgrades.nn epect client teams will keep you updated much better than  can. oin their discord servers, follow their repos, and keep an eye on their blogs.nndditional contetnntateless thereumnns discussed above, "eth" broadly represents a series of upgrades to thereum's core consensus mechanism, whereas "eth" represents & and upgrades to thereum's user-layer. tateless thereum (and much of eth) is focused on making the  state more sustainable, while opening up a spectrum of node-types that ultimately provides users with more choice on how to interact with the network.nnue to the separation of concerns (consensus vs. user-layer) this & effort is being designed and built in parallel to the eth upgrades. lthough there are some points at which we must ensure the designs are cohesive, statelessness can be shipped either before or after the eth+eth merge. he sooner the components of statelessness ship, the better, but eth is not dependent on the stateless timeline.nnhere are currently monthly stateless calls and an active & effort.  epect to see some solid movement on some of these iterative upgrades in !nn nn , a highly anticipated upgrade of thereum's fee market, is also sufficiently independent of eth and can technically happen either before or after the eth+eth merge. hat said, & on this item has picked up steam in the past  months, and we optimistically will see  fee mechanics on mainnet in .nnomething of note, though, is that  style fee mechanics will be native to eth's sharded data layer. his will allow for a better  to thereum's data consumers when attempting to chuck data into the thereum network, most tangibly aiding rollups in confidently checking their block data into the beacon chain.nnor more on the  upgrade in eth, check out im eiko's greatnn pdatesnn.nnommunity and toolingnnhe community and tooling around eth, although still early, is currently thriving and rapidly growing. here are many community organized initiatives --nnthtakernn,nnthereum ue iligence ommitteenn,nnthereum tudymasternn,nnecret hared alidatorsnn, and more -- all actively enhancing the validator eperience (and new open source projects and contributions to tooling each week)!nnhe  ran a very successfulnnedalla ata hallengennand is in the midst of evaluating a ton of eciting proposals from thenntaking ommunity rants roundnn. eep your eyes peeled for more eciting eth initiatives this year!nnith the launch of the beacon chain, there is seemingly endless green field to get involved and make an impact. emember, we're building this together. f you feel something is missing, or a project could use some help, please don't hesitate to get involved! ontributions, both small and large, can make a huge impact.nnrapping it upnnll in all, there is a ton of work to do in , but what's newnnhe successful launch of the beacon chain was a huge milestone for engineers, stakers, and the community at large. e now have the foundation for thereum's sustainable future. lthough there are many moving pieces and innumerable winding threads, across the board the thereum community has shown its unbelievable resilience and ability to deliver.nnere's to a great  🚀