Titre: London Testnets Announcement\nAuteur: Tim Beiko\nDate: June 18, 2021\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2021/06/18/london-testnets-announcement\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhe long-anticipated ondon upgrade is now ready for deployement on the thereum testnets! he upgrade will first go live on opsten, at blocknnnn, which is epected to happen around une , .nnhis upgrade followsnnerlinnn, which was activated only a few months ago on the thereum mainnet. y starting the work on ondon while erlin was being rolled out, client teams were able to release this network upgrade at record speed! he upgrade includes the following snn- ee market change for  . chainnn-  opcodenn- eduction in refundsnn- eject new contracts starting with the  bytenn- ifficulty omb elay to ecember st nnhe thereum at erders have put outnna blog postnngoing over the details of these s.nnt is worth noting that -, while backwards compatible with the current transaction format, introduces changes to the block header, adds a new transaction type, comes with new   endpoints, and changes the behavior clients in several areas (mining, transaction pool, etc.). t is highly recommended that projects familiarize themselves with the .  more etensive list of resources related to - can be foundnnherenn.nnondon imingnns of now, only the testnets (opsten, oerli, inkeby) have been scheduled for ondon. nce the upgrade has successfully been activated on these networks, a block will be set for the thereum mainnet and be communicated on this blog and in other venues.nnhe release schedule is as followsnnetworknnlock umbernnpected atennopstennnnnune , nnoerlinnnnune , nninkebynnnnuly , nnainnetnn once testnets fork successfully.nn once testnets fork successfully.nnote the ovan network will be upgraded at a later date, likely after the ainnet block has passed.nnthereum node operators should upgrade their nodes prior to the fork block on the networks they want to participate in. ue to block time variability, it is recommended to update several days before the epected date. ee the section below for the appropriate client versions to upgrade to.nnlient ersionsnnn order to be compatible with the ondon upgrade, node operators will need to upgrade the client version that they run. he versions, listed below for each client, support ondon acrossnntestnnthereum networks.nnnother release will be made by each client once the mainnet fork block has been chosen.nnlientnnersion umbernnownload inknngo-ethereum (geth)nn..nnownloadnnethermindnn..nnownloadnnrigon (f.k.a. urboeth)nn..-alphannownloadnnesunn..-nnownloadnnpenthereum (f.k.a. arity)nn..-rcnnownloadnnthereum nn..nnownloadnnote the penthereum client will be deprecated after the ondon upgrade.nnhe team is working with rigon on a smooth transition path for users. ore information can be foundnnherenn.nnnns an thereum user or ther holder, is there anything  need to donnhe upgrades listed in this post only affect the thereum testnets, and not the thereum mainnet. f you are only a user of the thereum mainnet, there is nothing you have to do now.nns a opsten miner or oerli/inkeby validator, what do  need to donnirst, download the latest version of your thereum client, as listed in the table above.nnhen, you will need to manually change your gas limit target to twice what it currently is.nnhis is because once ondon is live, the block size will be doubled and - will keep blocks about % full.nnor eample, if prior to ondon you were a opsten miner targetting a block size of ,, gas, you will now need to target a ,, gas limit to maintain the same amount of transactions per block, on average.nnf you do not change your gas limit target, you will start lowering the block size on the network.nnhe table below details the specific parameter you should update depending on your client.nnlientnnarameternngo-ethereum (geth)nnminer.gaslimitnnethermindnnargetlockasimitnnpenthereum (f.k.a. arity)nnparity_setaseilargetnnesunntarget-gas-limitnnrigon (f.k.a. urboeth)nnminer.gaslimitnns a non-validating or mining node operator, what do  need to donnownload the latest version of your thereum client, as listed in the table above, and be on the lookout for the mainnet upgrade announcement in the coming weeks.nnhat happens if  am a miner or node operator and  do not participate in the upgradennf you are using an thereum client that is not updated to the latest version (listed above), your client will sync to the pre-fork blockchain once the upgrade occurs. ou will be stuck on an incompatible chain following the old rules and you will be unable to send ther or operate on the post-upgrade thereum network.nnhat is a network upgrade in thereum-landnn network upgrade is a change to the underlying thereum protocol, creating new rules to improve the system. he decentralized nature of blockchain systems makes a network upgrade more difficult. etwork upgrades in a blockchain require cooperation and communication with the community, as well as with the developers of the various thereum clients in order for the transition to go smoothly.nnhat happens during a network upgradennfter the community comes to an agreement concerning which changes should be included in the upgrade, changes to the protocol are written into the various thereum clients, such as geth, rigon, esu and ethermind. he protocol changes are activated at a specific block number. ny nodes that have not been upgraded to the new ruleset will be abandoned on the old chain where the previous rules continue to eist.nnhy "ondon"nnfter stanbul, we ran out of names for our planned network upgrades.nnt was suggested to use evcon city names for upgradesnn, and we did! ondon is wherennevcon nntook place. t followed the erlinnnevcon nn.nnhank ou!nn big thanks to everyone who has been involved in researching, planning, implementing, testing, breaking, fiing, re-testing, and deploying ondon 😁🇬🇧nnhout out tonnenry ennfor the cover image for this post!nnisclaimernnhis is an emergent and evolving highly technical space. f you choose to implement the recommendations in this post and continue to participate, you should make sure you understand how it impacts you. ou should understand that there are risks involved including but not limited to risks like unepected bugs. y choosing to implement these recommendations, you alone assume the risks of the consequences. his post and recommendations are not a sale of any kind, and do not create any warranties of any kind including but not limited to anything related to the thereum network, or the thereum clients referred to herein.