Titre: Academic Grants Round grantee announcement\nAuteur: Ecosystem Support Program Team\nDate: July 29, 2022\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2022/07/29/academic-grants-grantee-announce\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\ne are thrilled to announce the  grantees selected for the recent cademic rants ound. his grants round invited researchers, think-tanks, h.. students, and all those interested in advancing knowledge around the thereum ecosystem to submit academic proposals.nnhank you to all those who submitted proposals, and congratulations to all the grantees. e are pleased with the number of quality applications that we received, which surpassed our initial epectations. iven the etraordinary potential of many project proposals,nnwe have more than doubled the initial budget fromnnnn,nnnntnnonn, tonnnn,nnnntnnonn millionnn.nnhe granted projects vary broadly in scope and geographic representation with research teams from ustralia, anada, hina, osta ica, ermany, reece, ungary, epal, akistan, omania, ingapore, outh orea, pain, witzerland, he etherlands, the nited ingdom the nited tates and ietnam.nne look forward to the results from the many academic projects supported in this round! f you missed this round and are researching something in this space, consider submitting a project inquiry to thenncosystem upport rogramnn.nnore than $ million has been allocated across  grants in  different categoriesnnategorynn# of projectsnnamount ()nnconomicsnnnn$,.nnonsensus ayernnnn$,.nn etworkingnnnn$,.nnaimum tractable aluennnn$,.nnormal erificationnnnn$,.nnryptography and zero knowledge proofsnnnn$,.nnther domainsnnnn$,.nnconomicsnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnnalysis of the ynamic nterplay between thereum and thereum ollups ransaction ees and emand rendsnnysajan ziznnnnuneet aur agpalnnndependentnno research the dynamic interplay of transaction fees and demand trends between base layer and layer  rollups.nnquilibrium staking rewards mplications for  blockchain securitynnrof alis utninsnn ra guyen, h.. candidate ecky ao, h.. candidatennndependentnno research and propose economic modeling of “opportunity costs of capital”, the dynamics of how capital flows between staking opportunities, and what that implies for the security of thereum (and other  blockchains) as it transitions to  and the optimal design of the staking incentive mechanisms.nnonetary olicy in the ge of ryptocurrenciesnnrof. hai guyen rof. ra ham r. inh guyen hanh r. inh guyen hi y r. uan hu r. eng ok r. hong guyennn ietnamnno shed light on the possible economic development of countries when cryptocurrencies are used as legal tender, particularly in light of the fact that the central banks would lose most of the monetary policy tools.nnime series analysis for transaction fee marketnnuisu ang unoung ee, h. eongwan ark, h. eungju ee oojin eong dvisor aewook eennoongsil niversity and eoul ational niversitynno perform a time series analysis of the thereum gas fee market after the introduction of -.nnhe nfluence of ransaction osts on conomic ctivity on the thereum etworknnr. ennart ntennlockchain esearch ab gmbnno investigate the etent to which transaction costs interrelate with different economic activities on the thereum network.nnhe arket for usic on-ungible okens (s) rice, olume, and isknnanling iang, h..eli iao, h.. olita azarov, . aiiang (iego) hu, nntony rook oundationnno understand the market for the music content non-fungible tokens (music s) and the determinants of price, volume, and risk dynamics of such s traded on penea, powered by the thereum blockchain.nnhe icroeconomic oundation of nnavid ang, h.nnndependentnno understand the economic conditions that justify the emergence of a  structure in governing community decisions.nnowards scalable incentive machines attributing value to individual agents in multi-player gamesnnal achmannnonders nstitute of rain and ognitionnno bridge coalitional game theory with the approimation power of deep learning to construct payoff machines large-scale estimators capable of measuring every agent's contribution to a multi-agent system according to different underlying principles.nnnderstanding aiting ime in ransaction ee echanismsnnrof uyao hang, h.nnnnrof an hang, h..nn esearch ellow ianyu unnndependentnno systematically study and then develop a practical policy that can further reduce the users’ waiting time in thereum .nnonsensus ayernnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnn(anksharding + ) uilder centralization s it really safennuisu angnn unoung ee, h. candidate eongwan ark eungju ee oojin eong dvisor aewook eenntatistical earning & omputational inance ab, eoul ational niversitynno eplore two potential risks of centralizing block production in  and propose proper modifications to the current  scheme to ensure safety against the suggested risks.nnmplification essaging for hort-erm lot inality and mproved eorg-olerancennammurabi endes, h.. onad ulaj, h..nnavidson ollegenno formalize and evaluate relatively unobtrusive changes in  for shorter-term finality and decreased likelihood of reorgs.nnnalyzing and ecuring thereum o in the ully synchronous etworknnr. iang angnnnnhenliang u, h..nnnnr. uan unnhe niversity of ydneynno study the security of thereum o in the fully asynchronous network, in which there is no guaranteed delivery time, and to make design suggestions on how to make thereum o more secure in an asynchronous network.nnombining ccountability and ame heory to trengthen lockchain ecuritynnrof. incent ramolinnhe niversity of ydneynno design novel algorithms that we will implement and evaluate in a large-scale distributed environment to demonstrate that blockchains can be made more secure with a practical combination of accountability and game theory.nnisentangling ransaction rivacy and onsensus in thereumnnrof. artik ayaknnrof. an hangnnuke niversitynno study the dilemma between desirable properties such as (pre and failed trade) transaction privacy and the properties of the underlying consensus mechanism provided by thereum.nnmproving thereum ommunication fficiency through ccountability and leible uorumsnnrof. artik ayaknnuke niversitynno analyze  possible avenues to still obtain the same desirable security guarantees while improving efficiency. irstly, using smaller quorums with accountability to obtain a more communication efficient protocol and secondly using fleible quorums to obtain stronger security guarantees (of up to ⅔ fraction rational corrupt validators).nno thereum gent-ased odelnnrof. laudio . essonenn icolò allarano, h..nnniversity of urichnno provide an abstract gent ased odel to simulate thereum roof-f-take consensus.nn onsensus-layer mitigations for validator ransomware attacksnnr. an 'eeffenn r. arren urley-mith lpesh hudia, h.. candidatennoyal olloway niversity of ondonnno eplore consensus protocol adaptations to mitigate the risks of ransomware attacks on thereum . validators. t will aim to design a new revocation mechanism that will allow validators to improve their operational security by quickly changing their signing key without having to withdraw their stake.nntaking echanism esign thereum . for oodnnrof. uyao hang, h..nnnnr. ulin iunn esearch ellows inyu ian ianyu in esen huangnncicon nno investigate the impact of the thereum . upgrades, mainly including its policy upgrade and the switch from proof of work to proof of stake, on its overall security, degree of decentralization, and scalability.nn etworkingnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnoded ransaction roadcasting for igh-throughput lockchainsnnrof. ohammad lizadehnnnnei ang, h.. studentnnassachusetts nstitute of echnology ()nno design and build a new scheme for broadcasting new pending transactions in a blockchain network, with the goal to reduce the bandwidth usage and the latency to propagate transactions.nno-secure transaction propagation on thereum ploit generation and attack detectionnnrof. uzhe angnnnnai i, h.. studentnnnniaqi hen, h.. studentnnnnibo ang, h.. studentnn ack illis icholas . weet ingyan hangnnyracuse niversitynno research and build an automated eploit generator to systematically evaluate the security/insecurity of current and future thereum clients under the low-cost o attacks as well as build o-secure mempool and transaction propagation protocols. articularly, we will present a two-buffer mempool mechanism to support different transaction admission priorities.nnclipse and o-esilient verlays for igh-erformance lock isseminationnnrof. pyros oulgaris vangelos olyvas, h.. leandros ntonov, h..nnthens niversity of conomics and usinessnno design, implement, and evaluate a fully decentralized, self-organizing, self-healing, resource conservative, and dependable dissemination mechanism that delivers messages faster than is currently planned to be employed, while guaranteeing high reliability even in the case of failures or high node churn and to shield our proposed protocol from clipse and o attacks, such that it becomes too hard for an attacker to obstruct message dissemination.nnrivacy-enhanced and efficient  routing algorithms for the thereum networknnstván ndrás eres, h.. student omokos elen, h.. student erenc éres, h.. student ndrás . enczúr, h.nnndependentnno design, implement and evaluate a privacy-enhanced routing algorithm for the thereum network that provably outperforms state-of-the-art proposals.nnikuna an thereum blockchain network security monitoring systemnnr. ndres omez amirez, h..nnnnoui l ardy, h.. candidatennistemas denia nternacionalnno build a proof-of-concept  network security monitoring system for the thereum blockchain for early detection of relevant incidents.nnaimum tractable aluennrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnattle of the ots iner tractable alue and fficient ettlementnnrof. lfred eharnnnnrof. hristine arlounnniversity of algarynno eamine how  and private transactions change blockchain economics, and impact socially desirable arbitrage such as loan liquidations and the alignment of  prices.nnatching the ephemeral nderstanding blockchains through mempool datannrof. an hangnn rof. artik ayaknnale niversitynno empirically study critical aspects of the thereum blockchain such as the fee markets and ordering fairness, by using mempool data.nn ulti-block  gamesnnruno azorra, h.. student rof. anesa azannompeu abra niversitynno formalize the eorg  game through a game theoretical perspective and understand the negative eternalities induced by rational validators.nnechanism esign and mpirical nalysis of  revention echanismsnnrof. gostino apponinnolumbia niversitynno study the design of aimum tractable alue () prevention mechanisms, such as relay and sequencing service, develop an econometric analysis of  prevention mechanisms, and quantify their impact on gas fees and value of ecosystem participants.nn protection through delayed eecution with time-locked puzzlesnnohammad ahanarannei ab at niversity of ritish olumbianno eplore the design in theory and practice (a) detailed theoretical evaluation of the design and security proofs in reasonable treat models. he output will be an academic paper or detailed technical report.nnptimal esign of iner tractable alue uctionsnnr eyman hezrnnnnr ijay ohannnoyal elbourne nstitute of echnology ( niversity)nno investigate the optimal design of auctions that, first, allocate the block space to potential transactions, and second, provide an efficient transaction ordering in a iner tractable alue uction ().nnormal erificationnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnounded odel hecking for erifying and esting thereum onsensus pecificationsnnr. oucheng unnnnnr. ucas . ordeironnniversity of anchesternno verify and test thereum consensus specifications, i.e., the ython reference implementation, by applying ounded odel hecking ().nnormally verified thereum . eacon hainnnamra fzaalnnnnuhammad mar anjuannnnuhammad mrannnnformation echnology niversity of the unjabnno find and correct bugs in the eacon hain using model checking technique.nn (mally rified block optimization)nnrof. lvira lbertnnnnrof. amir enaimnn rof. nrique artin-artinnnniversity omplutense of adridnno develop a fully automated and formally verified tool, in oq, that is able to verify the semantic equivalence of two loop-free fragments of  code.nnrustworthy ormal erification for thereum mart ontracts via achine-heckable roof ertificatesnnrof. rigore osunnnniaohong henm, h.. studentnnniversity of llinois rbana-hampaignnno study trustworthy formal verification for smart contracts via machine-checkable proof certificates.nnryptography and zero knowledge proofsnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnfficient rivate nformation etrieval for thereum ight lientsnnrof. un innnnrof. on oang aunn hat uang ao, h.. studentnnrof. hen engnnndependentnno develop cryptographic solutions that allow thereum light clients to perform data acquisition in a way that is not only efficient but also private.nn-s as a ervicennrof. bhishek ainnnohns opkins niversitynno design secure protocols that can be eecuted by a group of servers to jointly compute - proofs.nnther domainsnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnross chain authenticated queriesnnr. amiano i rancesco aesannniversity of isa & niversity of ambridgenno study how it is possible to adopt, and adapt, authenticated query protocols for blockchains to allow for cross chain communication between different thereum side chains (and the main net).nneasibility tudy of ipelining in thereum irtual achine rchitecturennopal jhannndependentnno research and develop for optimization of thereum network by increasing transaction throughput in the .nnovernance ased n references, ncentives, and nformationnnrof. o aggonernnniversity of olorado, ouldernno investigate governance methods of making collective decisions as a group.nnollups as ubsidiary olitical nits –  iversity of ayer  etworks ubject to ayer ’s onstitutional uthoritynnric lstonnnrof. o aggonernnniversity of olorado, ouldernno research the ways in which networks subsidiary to a given primary blockchain network share features with subsidiary political units in national constitutional orders.nn- ecurity of ross-chain mart ontractnnrof. ang iangnn r. iyuan ang r. in ang r. heng en r. onghai iunnwinburne niversity of echnologynno safeguard cross-chain smart contracts by investigating eisting or potential security risks and corresponding solutions of cross-chain smart contracts.nne're ecited to follow these research teams and see the broad impact they have in epanding academic knowledge throughout the thereum ecosystem!nnhe diversity and quality of this round of grants reflects the interest of cademia in catalyzing our shared knowledge in helping solve major problems and advancing the thereum ecosystem.