Titre: Ropsten TTD Announcement\nAuteur: Protocol Support Team\nDate: June 3, 2022\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2022/06/03/ropsten-merge-ttd\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nnnerminal otal ifficulty ()nnofnnnnhas been selected for the opsten erge.nntakers and node operators must manually override thennnnin both their eecution and consensus layer clientsnnbefore une , nn.nnroof-of-ork testnets can have volatile hash rates and the eact timing of he erge on opsten is hard to predict accurately. ssuming no unepected hash rate fluctuations, we epect he erge to happen aroundnnune -, nn.nnote that syncing an eecution layer client on opsten may take several hours to days andnnis requirednnto run through he erge.nnackgroundnnarlier this week, the opsten testnet's transition to proof-of-stakennwas announcednn. ue to the instability of hash rate on proof-of-work testnets, client releases supporting the upgrade were configured using an artificially highnnerminal otal ifficulty ()nn. his ensured that he erge could not be triggered before the opsten eacon hain was ready.nnesterday, at slotnnnn, the ellatri upgrade activated on the opsten eacon hain, priming the network to run through he erge.  newnnnnvalue ofnnnnhas been chosen to trigger the transition.nnode operators & stakers need to manually update thisnnnnvalue on both their eecution and consensus layer clients prior to the network reaching this total difficulty.nnhe current network total difficulty is part of the block header and can be obtained by querying your node or visiting a block eplorer.nnssuming no unepected changes in network hash rate, we epect this total difficulty value to be hit, andnnnnto be eceeded, around une -, .nnopsten erge lient ersionsnno perform the erminal otal ifficulty override, node operators and stakers must run the following client versions or more recent ones. ote that both the consensus and eecution layer clients must be fully synced before he erge, and that eecution layer clients may take several hours to days to do so.nnonsensus ayernnamennersionnninknnighthousennaby izard (..)nnownloadnnodestarnnv..nnownloadnnrysmnnv..-rc.nnownloadnnimbusnnv..nnownloadnnekunnv..nnownloadnnecution ayernnamennersionnninknnesunnv..nnownloadnnrigonnnv..-alphannownloadnngo-ethereum (geth)nnv..nnownloadnnethermindnnv..nnownloadnnerminal otal ifficulty verridenno activate he erge at the right time, node operators and stakers must overridennbothnntheir eecution and consensus layer clients'nnerminal otal ifficulty ()nnvalue tonnnn.nnere are instructions for doing so with each clientnnecution ayernnesunnf using  configuration files, add the following linennoverride-genesis-config"terminalotalifficulty"]nnr, when starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--override-genesis-config"terminalotalifficulty"nnrigonnnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--override.terminaltotaldifficultynno-thereum (geth)nnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--override.terminaltotaldifficulty nnethermindnnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--erge.erminalotalifficulty nnhis can also be set in your client'snnconfiguration filennornnenvironment variablesnn, by setting thennerminalotalifficultynnvalue tonnnnonsensus ayernnighthousennhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--terminal-total-difficulty-overridennodestarnnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--terminal-total-difficulty-override nnor more information, seennthis blog postnn.nnimbusnnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--terminal-total-difficulty-overridennrysmnnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--terminal-total-difficulty-override nnhis can also be set in thennconfig.yamlnnfile by updating thenn__nnvalue in your configuration directory and restarting your client.nnekunnhen starting the node using the , add the following flagnn--network-total-terminal-difficulty-overridennnns a node operator or staker, what should  donns mentioned in thennopsten erge nnouncementnn, node operators & stakers on opsten must update their eecution and consensus layer clients the versions listed above or more recent ones.nnnce that is done, node operators & stakers must manually override the opstennnerminal otal ifficulty ()nnvalue onnnboth their eecution and consensus layer clientnnusing the commands listed above.nnastly, make sure both your eecution and consensus layer clients are fully synced before he erge. his may take up to several days for eecution layer clients.nns an application or tooling developer, what should  donnith he erge going live on opsten, now is the time to ensure that your product works as epected through the proof-of-stake transition and in a post-merge contet. s eplained in annprevious postnn, he erge will have only minimal impact on a subset of contracts deployed on thereum, none of which should be breaking. dditionally, the lion's share of user  endpoints remain stable (unless you use proof-of-work specific methods such asnneth_getorknn).nnhat said, most applications on thereum involve much more than on-chain contracts. ow is the time to ensure that your front-end code, tooling, deployment pipeline and other off-chain components work as intended. e strongly recommend that developers run through a complete testing & deployment cycle on opsten (ornnilnnn) and report any issues with tools or dependencies to those projects' maintainers. f you are unsure where to open an issue, please usennthis repositorynn.nns an thereum user or ther holder, is there anything  need to donno. he thereum mainnet is not affected by this testnet. ubsequent announcements will be made on this blog before mainnet's transition.nns a miner, is there anything  need to donno. f you are mining on the thereum mainnet or opsten, you should be aware that each network will operate entirely under proof-of-stake after he erge. t that point, mining will no longer be possible on the network.nnhis is epected around une -,  on opsten and later this year for the thereum mainnet.nnwen mergenns of the publication of this post, the date for the thereum mainnet proof-of-stake transition hasnnnotnnbeen set. ny source claiming otherwise is likely to be a scam. pdates will be posted on this blog. lease stay safe!nnssuming no issues are found with opsten, once client testing is complete, thereum's other testnets, will run through he erge. nce oerli and epolia have successfully transitioned and stabilized, a slot height will be chosen for the ellatri upgrade on the eacon hain and annterminal total difficulty valuennwill be set for the mainnet transition. lients will then make releases that enable he erge on mainnet. hese will be announced on this blog and in other community publications. he image below illustrates this processnnote that this assumes every step goes as epected. f issues are found at any point in the process or test coverage is judged to be insufficient, these will be addressed before continuing with the deployment process.nnnly then will it be possible to estimate the eact date for he erge.nnn other words, 🔜.