Titre: Scouting for the Future: Technology and the Scouting Movement\nAuteur: Mihajlo Atanackovic\nDate: May 1, 2023\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2023/05/01/scouting-future-movement\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nello everyone! y name is ihajlo, and over the past si months as part of mynnet illion ellowshipnn, ’ve been working to bring the benefits of eb to the orld couting ovement.nnrowing up in erbia in the 's,  eperienced firsthand the devastating effects that wars and sanctions can have on young people. here weren’t a lot of opportunities to find good role models or supportive peers. n that sort of environment, it’s easy for youth to become caught up in gangs or criminal activity.  would say it’s because of technology and the scouting movement that  was able to avoid turning down the wrong path.nnn ,  searched fornn"zviđači"nn(erbian for ‘scout’) on ahoo, and stumbled upon one of the first scouting groups in the world to have its own website. ne of the members had created the website as a university project earlier that year. inding that website was where my journey began. ast-forward through  years of adventure, learning, volunteering, and professional engagement – and now  work for thennorld rganization of the cout ovement ()nn, a vibrant global community, representing more than  million couts across over  ational cout rganizations.nn ecentralised ovementnnhe couting movement is decentralised, with each chapter bringing its own unique skills and goals to a grassroots community focused on fostering an environment of learning, personal growth, and mutual respect. couts follow a general framework and guiding principles agreed upon by all members of the orld rganization, but have autonomy in how they implement projects and initiatives.nnn couting, we believe that education is key to making the world a better place to live, and that technology is one of the most powerful tools for education. ince , scouts around the world have participated in the “amboree on the air” – a remote gathering of scouts working on the skills of amateur radio operation. ore recently, scouts around the world have joined the “nnamboree on the nternetnn” – the net generation of global scouting events facilitated by technology.nnn my time with , ’ve watched the scouting movement eperiment with the early internet, and then helped it to make the transition to eb .. oday, scouts have a full online presence and platform that can be used worldwide to coordinate and contribute to global initiatives, keep track of local chapters, and to communicate with the global movement.  am ecited to say that it’s now time for the scouts to upgrade to eb .!nny et illion ellowshipnnhe first piece of my work as a et illion ellow was to create some educational content for scouts on the basics of eb e talked about what a blockchain is, how it can be used, and the importance of encryption for staying safe online.  hosted two sessions at the “amboree on the nternet”, and as a proof of participation for the event, encouraged attendeesnnto mint the first-ever orld couting  badge using .nnhe digitization of scout badges is a very clear use case for us, and we will be working to create new blockchain-based badges for scouts around the world to unlock and collect. ut there is much more potential for innovation in the world of eb for the scouting movement. ew mechanisms for voting and governance could allow scouts worldwide to have more effective coordination on big initiatives.  world scouting curriculum for eb could help millions of young people learn how to safely keep and use digital assets.  world scouting wallet could guide and reward scouts on their journey of learning, and allow local chapters to create and eport their own challenges and badges to a global community.nnhe cout’s assportnnlthough this journey began with seeing the untapped potential of s and digital badges, the world of eb . is a big territory -- and  wanted to chart a path that moves wisely toward the long-term goals of couting.  cout's badges are tokens of personal growth and achievement that a scout takes with them. hey help to support and define the identity of a scout, acting as 'soul-bound tokens' attached to a real person's journey through life and scouting. igital badges are a large part of the picture, but what we really need is annnidentity systemnnthat is compatible with digital badges, tokens, and anything else that couts may need in the future.nne are now preparing to build the first foundational layer of orld couting eb vision he cout’s assport. s an identity system, a cout’s passport would be compatible with all sorts of eb systems, and would allow the scouting movement to have an identity layer for badges, tokens, signatures, messages, etc. n particular, a eb-enabled scout’s identity would allow for more robust social recovery for scouts, allowing us to safely create  scouting groups, to eplore new methods of crowdfunding and governance, and of course to unlock the infinite possibilities of s and digital badges or certifications. bove all else, developing a special wallet module for the couts will enable us to create user flows and account protections specifically for young people, an important demographic not often considered in consumer wallet software.nnike all initiatives in the scouting movement, we are working from the ground up. he development of the scout’s passport will have a sustainable support system and community-based contributions from the many scouts already involved in eb. he couts wallet will be open-source, allowing anyone to both contribute to and to benefit from modules in our identity platform. e hope to have an  of the orld couting allet ready in time for thennorld cout amboree being held in outh orea this ugustnn, which will bring together , scouts from all over the world.nnoving orwardnns  continue on this eciting journey, 'm working on implementing a technical framework for a set of initial orld couting ducational nitiatives andnncouts for ustainable evelopment oalsnnadges based on verified credentials that will then be stored in the cout’s wallet module.  think that technology is a powerful tool to create an empowered community, and with this framework we can start to build a brighter future for couts worldwide.nn'm ecited to share my progress and eperiences with you, and  hope to inspire others to eplore the potential of blockchain and eb technology within their own communities. et's embark on this journey together and see where it takes us!nnf you're interested in learning more about my project and staying up to date on my progress, feel free to connect with me onnnwitternnornninkednnnhe orld rganization of the cout ovement ()nnis a vibrant global community, representing more than  million couts across over  ational cout rganizations. s one of the largest youth movements in the world,  plays a critical role in shaping the lives of young people, fostering values of leadership, community service, and environmental stewardship.nn ote from eam et illionnn s of today, applications are nownnclosednnfor ohort # of the et illion ellowship. e would like to thank everyone who applied, and will be reaching out to all applicants with a decision in the coming weeks.