Titre: Announcing the KZG Ceremony\nAuteur: EF Protocol Support Team\nDate: January 16, 2022\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2023/01/16/announcing-kzg-ceremony\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nigh fees have made life difficult for travelers through these ark orests. he ools of em once clouded, now clarified by the filter of , reveal that they are not deep enough to sustain.nnegends tell of a society flourishing under the abundance brought about by ankhard, of giant oll-ps subsisting on fields of nourishing ata lobs, each supporting their own fractal nutrient layers.nno summon ankhard, our guides point us to a eremony. ll members of the ands of ther and abroad are encouraged to contribute. ach will add their unique contribution to the collective and in doing so, illuminate the path forward.nn🕯nnverviewnnhe  eremony is a coordinated public ritual which will provide a cryptographic foundation for thereum scaling efforts likenn-nn(aka proto-danksharding). hese types of events are also known as "rusted etups," famously used by cash to bootstrap the chain's privacy features. owever, they can also be used to support scaling mechanisms, as thereum plans to do.nnroto-danksharding requires a new cryptographic scheme  ommitments. hese will generate a "structured reference string" () which is needed for the commitments to work. n  is secure as long as a single ceremony participant successfully conceals their secret.nnt's a multi-party ceremony each contributor creates a secret and runs a computation to mi it with previous contributions. hen, the output is made public and passed to the net contributor. he final output will be included in a future upgrade to help scale the thereum network.nnourcennitalik's blognn"ow do trusted setups work"nno learn more, arl eekhuizen'snnevcon alknneplains both at a high level and in-depth. r, check out the links provided in thennesources reponn.nnhy it is importantnnour participation has meaningful impact beyond the technical output of the eremony itself and the scaling mechanisms it would enable.nnere, the broader thereum community has a rare opportunity to contribute directly to core protocol development. n fact, the eremony credibility nownnand maintaining itnnlong into the future depends on many contributions from a number of differentiated paths.nns we build our own infrastructure, we remind ourselves of what we hope thereum will bring to the world accessible protocols anyone can use or contribute to. his is engagement in the practice of collective construction, the maintenance of our community ideals. ur summoning manifests new meaning for a changing world.nnow to participatennhere are four main ways for the thereum community can help build out this important infrastructure (ordered by technical difficulty, low to high)nnrowser interfacesnncreate and contribute your own randomness through your preferred browsernnhe main resource for information and participation isnnceremony.ethereum.orgnn.nnake sure you are at this  and not another one!nnhere may be phishing/impersonation attemptsnncan be through the hosted interface or on nnparticipants will need to provide an thereum address (which has sent at least  transactions as of //) or ithub account to prevent spam contributions.nnommand line implementationsnnif you're comfortable using a command line, check out some of thenn implementationsnnto contribute from your local machinennenerate entropy in a unique waynnou can generate some randomness using some unique & crazy method and use one of the above methods to add it to the ceremony. (f, for some reason, you need more time for your contribution, reach out tonnceremonyethereum.orgnn)nneg. in  as part of the cash apling ceremony, yan ierce and ndrew iller used a geiger counter and an artifact from hernobyl to generate entropy in an airplane -nnlinknnunding availablennpply herennrite your own implementationnnots of effort has gone into making writing your own implementation for the ceremony as simple as possible, (some have even done it in an afternoon). heck out thenncomprehensive ceremony specsnn.nnf you really want to convince yourself that the secret hasn't been leaked, consider rolling your own - implementation. ou only need  and  integer multiplication and incorrect contributions will simply be rejected by the equencer, so you cannont harm the ceremony.nnf, for some reason, you need more time for your contribution, reach out tonnceremonyethereum.orgnnunding availablennpply herennimelinennhe project has been in development since mid- eplore the full timelinennherenn. he main areas of work included an implementation of the underlying cryptographic components, the equencer, and an interface to support browser based participation. hese efforts saw broad ecosystem engagement, with contributions from dozens of teams and individuals these include a few teams within the thereum oundation (rotocol upport, rivacy & caling plorations (), evops, th.org, and esearch) orldcoin, and independent contributors (names below!).nnhe first contribution period will last for two months, running riday the th until arch th . ollowing that, there will be a special contribution period for bespoke implementations and unique entropy generation which may require additional support.nnfter both of these are concluded, the equencer will revert to accept general contributions until - is ready to be scheduled for a network upgrade.nnt this point, the equencer will stop accepting new contributions and produce its final output. here will be at least one public verification that this is the correct output - individuals are also invited to verify this as well using simple scripts likennthis onenn.nnsnnere are a few more questions that people commonly have.nno  need to have registered beforehand to contributennope! ou just need an thereum address that has sent at least  transactions before an  .nnow long does it take to participatennarticipating itself is very quick, less than a minute, but it might take longer to wait for your turn. veryone trying to contribute gets put in a lobby together and the net person to contribute is chosen at random.nnhat needs to go wrong for the ceremony to breaknnhe ceremony has a "-of-" trust assumption, which means that only a single participant in the entire ceremony needs to have not revealed their secret input for everything to be secure. his means that to break it, every single participant would need to collaborate to etract their secret and recombine it or there would have to be a bug innnevery single implementationnn.nnee the full list of s atnnceremony.ethereum.orgnn.nnnd a huge shout out tonnico erranonn,nneoff amperdnn,nnhialinn, andnnakamichi sutsuminnfrom rivacy & caling plorations,nnemco loemennn,nnarcin ostrzewann,nnrzegorz Świrskinnandnnhilipp ipplnnfrom orldcoin,nnafael atiasnn, andnnarithosh ayanthinnfrom  evps, in addition tonnevaundray edderburnnn,nnarius an er ijdennn,nnaniel nopiknn,nngnacio agopiannn,nnntonio ansonnandnnaul ackerownnamong many others for doing an incredible amount of work to enable this eremony.