Titre: Ethereum Protocol Fellowship: Third Cohort Recap\nAuteur: Protocol Support Team\nDate: May 10, 2023\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2023/05/10/ethereum-protocol-fellowship-third-recap\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhe  concluded itsnnthird cohortnnand is preparing for the fourth cohort. pplications will be open soon.nnign up here to get notified when they opennn.nnhe thereum rotocol ellowship recently completed its third successful cohort in ebruary . ts completion marked  months of immersive learning, research and contribution to the thereum core ecosystem from a group of talented and dedicated fellows. efore we look into the third cohort, let's recap what thereum core development is and how  fits into its landscape.nnrotocol developmentnnt the heart of the thereum ecosystem lies core development, the work on the research and code that powers the thereum network, which includes client implementations, specifications, and other foundational aspects.nnaintaining a healthy inflow of core developers is crucial for the continued success of thereum. hese developers and researchers collaborate to shape the direction of thereum's cutting-edge roadmap, tackle its various challenges, and implement the solutions. heir efforts ensure that the protocol remains up-to-date and can handle the increasing demands placed on it by its growing user base.nnowever, jumping into core protocol development is not an easy task. here is no official organization that manages protocol development. he rapid progress of thereum protocol improvements, coupled with scattered information, can make it difficult for people to keep up. here are many areas andnnroadmapnngoals being worked on, each having their own rabbit holes to dive down.nnhe thereum rotocol ellowship was designed as a solution to make core contribution more approachable with the goal of helping developers join the various teams that work on the protocol.nnrotocol ellowshipnnhe thereum rotocol ellowship () is a  month permissionless fellowship program that helps to streamline the process of becoming a core developer.nnhe program is structured to give fellows the autonomy and independence required to work as a core developer. articipants choose their area of interest, propose a project, and work on it for the remainder of the program. hey receive valuable feedback from current core developers and become part of a community of like-minded individuals eager to learn by doing.nn projects are diverse and contribute to various areas, including research, consensus and eecution clients, testing, and protocol security. he  is fully open and permissionless, allowing anyone to follow along and participate in the program.  portion of the budget is reserved to award outstanding contributions from permissionless participants. any  fellows have made valuable contributions to the thereum core ecosystem, and some have secured long-term positions on core teams like ighthouse, eku, rysm, thereum oundation esearch, lashbots, ptimism and others.nnhird cohortnnpplicationsnnfor the third cohort opened on eptember st, . fter reviewing over  applications and conducting many interviews,  participants were selected to join the official cohort. owever, being a permissionless program, the cohort ended with a total of  contributors.nnuring the  month period, fellows had the opportunity to work with  core developer mentors from various client and research teams. heir work was regularly reported in over nnweekly updatesnn. ellows also participated in weekly standup and office hours calls to share updates, discuss projects, and participate in  interview sessions with mentors and core devs.nnltogether, fellows proposed and contributed to nnprojectsnn, some of which are still receiving contributions. hese projects not only represent a valuable learning eperience but also meaningful contributions to the thereum ecosystem.nn hird ohort rojectsnnrojectnnescriptionnn undler in ustnnmplement bundler for -  as a standalone entity that can work alongside any eecution clientnn alletnnodular  browser etension walletnn  lientnnontribute to the implementation of - in ighthousennortal etwork ltralight lientnnuilding the subprotocols of the ltralight clientnnonsensus lient eward snnollection of ful s to enhance interoperability across beacon node implementationsnn onitornnonitoring system to track network data and on-chain eventsnnelios  nneer-to-peer networking service for eliosnnolonnn rollup analytics software suitenn ight lientnneku light client snn in pen amesnn mechanisms in the pen ame engine to analyse  strategiesnnodel nnust implementation of a ecure ademlia  overlay atop the discv protocolnnrysm eacon  ompliant alidatornnewrite the rysm validator code to be compatible with the standard eacon nneducing rust in elaynnechanism to reduce trust in the  relaynnalidator igning ey evocationnnevocation mechanism to allow validators to improve their operational securitynnerkle rie igration plorationnn& for the migration from erkle atricia ries to erkle riesnntaking ool ttestation nalysisnnerform attestation analysis of major staking poolsnnmproving ensorship esistancennashboard to track network health and block utilizationnnive  estsnnncrease the scope of eth, discv and discv tests and add new tests for the thereum eecution clientsnneth o ttack itigationnnmplement the o defense scheme proposed in the  papernn roject etailsnnll resources of the program can be found in itsnnrepositorynn. ou can follow all activity in the cohort there, checkout projects resources, development updates and fellows' notes. rojects are not only  contributions but all of the work done within the cohort is fully open, being an actual part of thereum's open research and resources.nnut it's not all about work and contributions. ne of the crucial aspects of the  is the opportunity to meet many of the inspirational people who participate in core development. uring thenver, over half of the cohort gathered to participate in  ay, a full day of programming withnnproject presentationsnn, panel discussions and social time.nnet ohort oon™️nnollowing the success of the third cohort, we are eagerly preparing to start the fourth cohort of the thereum rotocol ellowship. or anyone interested in diving into thereum core development, stay tuned for the application announcement in the coming weeks. o get notified, join thenn google groupnn.nneanwhile, you can prepare your application by ensuring a foundational understanding of the thereum protocol, contributing to open-source projects through your itub account, especially contributions to eisting projects in the thereum ecosystem, and giving some thought to the type of project you may like to work on.nnoin us in shaping the future of thereum. oin the .