Titre: Pectra Testnet Announcement\nAuteur: Protocol Support Team\nDate: February 14, 2025\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/02/14/pectra-testnet-announcement\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\n//] epolia ncident pdatenneennthis postnn.nn//] olesky ncident pdatennn eb. , , the ectra upgrade activated on the olesky testnet. fter the activation, a configuration issue in esu, ethermind and go-ethereum led to a chain split on olesky. he issue was rapidly fied, but the olesky network performance is still degraded. ore details on the incident can be foundnnherenn.nnepolia etwork pgradennhe epolia network upgrade timing isnnunchangednn. he network is epected to fork at epochnnnn(ar. ,  ). ode operators using thennesunn,nngo-ethereumnn,nnethermindnnornnodestarnnclientsnnnnupgrade their client prior to the upgrade. he latest releases can be found in the table below.nnolesky oordinated lashingnnf you run a olesky validator, please follow these instructionsnnin this documentnnto help the network stabilize.nnectra verviewnnt will go live on olesky at epochnnnn(eb. ,  ) and then on epolia at epochnnnn(ar. ,  ). he ectra testnet client releases are listednnbelownn. nce both testnets have successfully upgraded, a mainnet activation epoch will be chosen.nnectra follows last year'snnencun upgradenn. t introduces features to augment thereum accounts, improve the validator eperience, support  scaling, and more!nnhis post eplores these three major improvements in detail. or a more comprehensive overview, seennethereum.org's guide to the upgradenn.nnrom s to mart ccountsnn-nnrepresents a major step toward widespread account abstraction, enabling users to enhance their ternally wned ccounts (nnsnn) with smart contract functionality.nnhis hybrid approach combines the simplicity of s with the programmability of contract-based accounts. n practice, it enablesnnransaction batchingnn, where multiple operations eecute atomically within a single transaction. o more separate transactions for "approve" and "swap"!nnas sponsorshipnn, which allows others to pay for transaction fees. his is especially useful when wanting to transact from an account that doesn't have  in it.nnlternative authenticationnn, which means manynnhardware security modulesnn(s) in phones today can be used to authorize operations for the account via technologies likennpasskeysnn.nnpending controlsnn, which can limit how many tokens a specific application can spend, or cap daily outflows from a wallet, improving security.nnecovery mechanismsnn, which provide different options for users to safeguard their assets, without migrating to a new account.nno use -, an  signs an authorization pointing to a specific delegation address whose code it wants to eecute. nce set, the account gains the new code’s capabilities (e.g., batching, sponsorship, authentication logic, etc.). ecause choosing a delegation target hands over a great deal of control, - enforces several safety checksnnhain-specific delegationsnn by default, a delegation is only valid on a specific chain , preventing the same authorization from being used on different networks.nnonce-bound delegationsnn authorizations can be tied to the account's current nonce, automatically invalidating them once the nonce increases.nnevocabilitynn the owner of the  can always create another - authorization that revokes or replaces the eisting delegation code, preventing a permanent lock-in if something goes wrong.nnor a deeper dive into how this all works, seennlightclient's evcon talk on the topicnn.nnalidator  mprovementsnnhree new s within ectra improve the validator eperiencennnn,nnnnandnnnn.nnhe first, -, raises the maimum balance a validator can receive rewards on from   to  , through an opt-in update of withdrawal credential type.nnor smaller stakers, this enables automatic reward compounding. reviously, any rewards earned beyond a validator's   deposit would not count towards their active stake. takers who wanted to stake more than   could only do so in fied   increments, relying on staking pools for anything in between. ith -, both eisting and new validators can be configured to earn rewards on the entirety of their stake, up to   per validator.nnhis  also allows larger operators to consolidate multiple validators. o do so, they must first designate a target validator on which to enable compounding, and then initiate a consolidation request from another source validator. o understand the mechanics in detail, watch this talk fromnneku's aul arrisnn.nn- also etends validators' abilities, this time by introducing eecution layer triggerable withdrawals. rior to this , only a validator's active signing key could trigger an eit. ow, if an thereum address is set as a withdrawal credential, that too can force an eit. his reduces trust assumptions in delegation settings, as the owner of the funds -- be they a human in control of an  or a -managed smart contract -- can always trustlessly initiate an eit.nnastly, - removes a lingering vestige of pre-merge thereum the delay between validator deposits and their addition to the deposit queue. re-merge, the eacon hain had to wait  blocks before processing validator deposits to account for potential proof-of-work re-orgs. his is no longer necessary!nnith -, deposit processing delays now drop from around  hours to roughly  minutes. eku engineers ucas aldanha and tefan ratanov covered the details of - and - in theirnnjoint evcon  talknn.nnlob caling .onnhe final major change in ectra is -, increasing thereum’s blob capacity by %!nnlobs, introduced in thennencun upgradenn, are ephemeral data storage that s can use to submit compressed transaction data and proofs to thereum . ince going live, they've reduced  fees for s by -, resulting in far cheaper  user transactions.nnhe thereum mainnet currently supports an average of  blobs per block, with a maimum of  to accommodate periods of high demand. ith -, these numbers will increase to an average of  and maimum of .nnnlikennnn, which nodes store indefinitely, blobs are pruned from the network after  epochs (~ days). his bounds the amount of disk space they can use. he binding constraint for blobs is instead bandwidth, as blobs need to be gossiped over thereum's peer-to-peer layer. o offset the bandwidth increase caused by -, ectra also introduces -, which caps the worst-case size of a block.nno continue scaling thereum’s data throughput without a corresponding rise in bandwidth requirements, we must shift from a world where every node stores every blob to one where nodes store only a subset and sample the network to verify the remaining blob data. ood news work to support this is already underway! rancesco from the thereum oundation research team outlined this scaling roadmap in hisnndevcon keynotenn.nnectra pecificationsnnhe list of changes introduced in ectra can be found innn-nn. or reference, they arenn- recompile for - curve operationsnn- ave historical block hashes in statenn- upply validator deposits on chainnn- ecution layer triggerable eitsnn- ncrease the __nn- ove committee inde outside ttestationnn- ncrease calldata costnn- eneral purpose eecution layer requestsnn- lob throughput increasenn- et  account codenn- dd blob schedule to  config filesnndditionally, full python specification for the changes to the eecution and consensus layer specifications can be found in the following releasesnnecution layernnv..rc.devnnonsensus layernnricorio (v..-beta.)nnastly, ectra also introduces changes to the ngine  used for communication between the consensus and eecution layer nodes. hese are specified in thennprague.mdnnfile of the repository.nnectra ctivationnnhe ectra network upgrade will activate on olesky and epolia as followsnnetworknnpochnn imenn imestampnnoleskynnnn-- nnnnepoliannnn-- nnnndditionally, ectra has already been activated on phemery, a staking testnet which resets every  days. ead more about itnnherenn.nnlient eleasesnnmportant notennduring to thennolesky incidentnn, issues were found with thennesunn,nngo-ethereumnn,nnethermindnnandnnodestarnnclients. he tables below have been updated with new releases for each of these clients. ode operatorsnnnnupgrade to the latest versions before the epolia network ugprade activation to address the issue triggered on olesky.nnhe following client releases are suitable for the ectra upgrade onnnbothnnolesky and epolia. urther versions will activate support on mainnet. nce these are released, another announcement will be made on this blog.nnonsensus ayer epolia & olesky eleasesnnhen running a validator, both the onsensus ayer eacon ode and alidator lient must be updated.nnamennersionnninknnrandinenn..nnownloadnnighthousenn..-beta.nnownloadnnodestarnn..nn..nnownloadnnimbusnn..nnownloadnnrysmnn..nnownloadnnekunn..nnownloadnn/] otesnnnnhe odestar version was updated from .. to .. following thennolesky incidentnn.nnhe randine client wasnnopen-sourced in pril nn. ince then, it has been included in all ectra testing efforts alongside other clients.nnecution ayer epolia & olesky eleasesnnamennersionnninknnesunnv..nnownloadnnrigonnnv..-rcnnownloadnngo-ethereumnnv..nnownloadnnethermindnnv..nnownloadnnethnnv..nnownloadnnotesnn/] ll versions above were updated to address thennepolia incidentnn.nn/] he eth version was updated from .. to .. to fi a epolia configuration issue.nn/] he esu version was updated from .. to .. following thennolesky incidentnn.nn/] he go-ethereum version was updated from .. to .. following thennolesky incidentnn.nn/] he ethermind version was updated from .. to .. following thennolesky incidentnn.nnnnow do thereum network upgrades worknnthereum network upgrades require eplicit opt-in from node operators on the network. hile client developers come to consensus on what s are included in an upgrade, they are not the ultimate deciders of its adoption.nnor the upgrade to go live, validators and non-staking nodes must manually update their software to support the protocol changes being introduced.nnf they use an thereum client that is not updated to the latest version (listed above), at the fork block, it will disconnect from upgraded peers, leading to a fork on the network. n this scenario, each subset of the network nodes will only stay connected with those who share their (un)upgraded status.nnhile most thereum upgrades are non-contentious and cases leading to forks have been rare, the option for node operators to coordinate on whether to support an upgrade or not is a key feature of thereum's governance.nnor a more ehaustive overview of thereum's governance process, seennthis talk by im eikonn.nns an thereum mainnet user or $ holder, is there anything  need to donnn short, no.nnhis announcement only pertains to thereum testnets olesky and epolia.  further announcement will be made for ectra's activation on the thereum mainnet, but even then, thereum mainnet users and $ holders are not epected to have to take action.nnf you'd like to watch the upgrade go live on olesky, thtaker is hosting annnonline viewing partynn!nns a non-stakingnnepolia or oleskynnnode operator, what do  need to donno be compatible with the upgrade on either testnet, update your node's eecution and consensus layer clients to the versions listed in the table above.nns annepolia or oleskynnstaker, what do  need to donno be compatible with the upgrade on either testnet, update your node's eecution and consensus layer clients to the versions listed in the table above.nnake sure both your beacon node and validator client are updated.nns a non-epolia or olesky node operator or staker, what do  need to donnothing for now. urther announcements will be made for ectra's activation on mainnet.nns an application or tooling developer, what should  donneview the s included in ectra to determine if and how they affect your project --- there are many new eciting features being introduced across both the eecution and consensus layers!nns a security researcher, what should  donneep an eye out for a post about the ectra bug bounty competitionnncoming soonnn👀nnhy "ectra"nnpgrades to the eecution layer follow evcon city names, and those to the consensus layer use star names. "ectra" is the combination of rague, the location of evcon , and lectra, a blue-white giant star in the constellation of aurus.nnriginal cover image bynnulia oloninann, with modifications bynnomo aitonn.