Titre: Ethereum Foundation Treasury Policy\nAuteur: Hsiao-Wei Wang\nDate: June 4, 2025\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/06/04/ef-treasury-policy\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhank you to the ers that provided valuable input and feedback to the draft document astian ue, italik uterin, ogdan opa, omasz tańczak, redrik vantes, oav eiss, ankrad eist, im eiko, icolas onsigny, io, le tokes, adislaus, and oseph chweitzer.nnhank you to kpk, teakhouse inancial, and pcaversaccio for providing valuable and insightful input and the final review of this document.nnhe thereum oundation () eists to strengthen thereum’s ecosystem and uphold itsnnlong-standingnnnon-negotiable objectivesnnenabling "nnapplications that run eactly as programmed without any possibility of downtime, censorship, fraud, or third-party interferencenn".  reasury supports 's long-term agency, sustainability, and legitimacy. apital deployments should be balanced between seeking returns above a benchmark rate and etending 's role as a steward of the thereum ecosystem, with a particular focus on ei.nnhis document provides the policies and guidance for  reasury management and discusses the key indicators and considerations.nn. acro olicynno achieve its objectives,  will maintain and periodically refine an asset-liability management policy and a high-level grant allocation strategy.  will manage its assets, considering risk, duration, and liquidity, while remaining aligned with thereum’s core principles.nnur approach focuses on two variablesnnnnnnnnnnual penn(epressed as % of current total treasury)nnnnnnears of pe uffernn(number of years of operating runway held in reserve)nnherenn × nn determines target fiat-denominated (offchain or onchain) reserves. his value directly informs the size and the cadence of  sales.nn(nnotalreasury -  × nn) defines the value of  reserves dividing by  price gives the number of  that will remain in core holdings.nnt regular intervals, the oard and anagement re-evaluate both variables, weighing market dynamics and community input to keep short-term operations aligned with long-term strategy. wo further lenses shape each review () identifying pivotal years that merit heightened ecosystem engagement and () maintaining a counter-cyclical posture—stepping up support in downturns and moderating it in bull runs.nnurrent targets stand at  nn%nnof treasury for annual ope and  nn. yearsnn. his policy reflects our conviction that - are likely to be pivotal for thereum, warranting enhanced focus on critical deliverables.nn epects to remain a long-term stewardnn, but envisions its scope gradually narrowing. e intend to reduce annual ope roughly linearly over the net five years, ending at a long-term % baseline that is common for endowment-based organizations. his glide path and baseline will be reviewed and adjusted as conditions evolve.nn. rypto ssets olicynnhe  will seek to earn acceptable returns on treasury assets in a manner consistent with thereum's underlying principles.nnhe key considerations of the on-chain portfolio include, but are not limited tonnafety and securitynn favor battle-tested, immutable, audited, permissionless protocols. ncourage positive-sum actors in the thereum ei ecosystem. im to counterbalance, and not contribute to, systemic risks to thereum as a whole. ontinually re-evaluate projects for attack vectors and risks, including but not limited to smart contract, governance, custodial (e.g., stablecoins), and oracle risks.nneasonable return and risknn select conservative choices with higher degrees of liquidity instead of chasing only high returns. uard against not just the risk of loss of funds but also risks to liquidity and general portfolio fleibility. eployments that are somewhat higher risk may happen but will be of a more limited scale and in segregated sleeves. n all cases, aim to be a modest portion of any single project’s total .nnthereum’s deeper goalsnn support maimally secure, decentralized, open source,nncypherpunknnapplications.nnypherpunknnei is permissionless no barbed-wire fences. deal protocols are trust-minimized, composable, and maimally privacy-friendly.nne will frequently reallocate funds between protocols for reasons such as changing market conditions, diversification, or new yield opportunities. ithdrawals should be understood in this contet and not as anti-endorsements.nn. ther alesnnhroughout the year,  will periodically calculate the deviation of the treasury’s fiat-denominated assets from the pe uffer (“”) target and determine how much, if any, ther will be sold over the net three months. hese sales will typically be via fiat off-ramps or onchain swaps for fiat-denominated assets.nn. ther eploymentsnnur current strategies include solo staking and w supplied to established lending protocols. ore deployments are re-evaluated continually but intended to be long-term.  may also borrow stablecoins and seek higher yields onchain.  anagement and advisors will vet candidate protocols for contract security, liquidity risk and de-peg risk, and other factors. s the ei ecosystem matures,  plans to fold select on-chain allocations, including to carefully vetted farms and tokenized s, into its fiat reserve.nn. iat-denominated ssets olicynnhe  will allocate its fiat holdings acrossnnmmediate-liquidity assets cash and other highly liquid fiat-denominated instruments that cover real-time operational needsnniability-matched reserves fied-term deposits, investment-grade bonds, and other low-risk instruments aligned with longer-term obligations andnnokenized s governed by the same strategic objectives and risk guidelines as native crypto assets.nn. ransparency olicynnhe  o-s are accountable to the oard for the management of the treasury.nno ensure transparency, accountability, and informed oversight, a structured internal reporting cadence is in place. eports are prepared and maintained by the inance team, with distribution based on scope and sensitivity.nn.. uarterly eportsnnhe inance team provides quarterly reports to the oard and anagement, includingnnerformance (bsolute and against enchmarks)nnll positions (pen & losed since the last report)nn summary of notable events, includingnnperations (processes, infrastructure, security updates/incidents)nncosystem engagement (meetings taken, partnerships, etc.)nn.. nnual eportsnnhe annualnn eportnnwill include further treasury-related information, including a summary of major treasury allocations. or eample, percentages in fiat, idle , and deployed .nn. ypherpunk oalsnnhe  (through its research, advocacy, and capital deployments) will build on cypherpunk principles to help formalize and apply a practical evaluation framework we refer to asnn“efipunk”nnwhich has the following propertiesnnecuritynnpen sourcenninancial elf-overeigntynnech olutions over rust-based olutions (e.g., multisigs, reliance on legal coercion as recourse)nnctive eployment of ryptographic ools to rotect ivil ibertiesnnrivacynnrivacy is historically neglected in the broader ei space, but it remains essential. rivacy protects market participants from both digital surveillance (e.g., front running, sandwiching, liquidation sniping, targeted phishing, profiling and data-based coercion) and physical threats (i.e. in-person coercion).nn..  should actively support projects in their efipunk journeynnthereum is poised to attract eponentially larger flows of capital, talent, and innovative energy.  rowth, however, is often path-dependent standards adopted in periods of chaotic rapid growth harden into legacy constraints, and designs that privilege transparency can lock in surveillance by default. ncumbent systems often eert subtle pressures that narrow the design space for novel ei primitives and constrain privacy-focused innovation.nnhe thereum oundation will defend against these pressures.nnhrough research, advocacy, and strategic capital deployments, the  can help cultivate an thereum-native financial ecosystem that safeguards self-sovereignty and sustains, at scale, “nnan open society in the electronic agenn.”nnurning this vision into real infrastructure takes work. here are numerous challenges to building cypherpunk ei protocols today higher gas prices for privacy,  friction, difficulty bootstrapping liquidity, more stringent audit needs associated with technical compleity and immutability, and, simply put, opponents to privacy. s a result, much of today's ei ecosystem relies on centralized elements backdoor shutdown mechanisms or funds etraction functions, ecessive reliance on multisigs or , pervasive use of whitelists, centralized and surveilled s, and a general absence of onchain privacy – all leave both ei markets and participants eposed to systemic vulnerabilities.nnrivacy is particularly important to get right. snn ypherpunk’s anifestonnpoints out, “nnfor privacy to be widespread it must be part of a social contractnn”. rivacy has inherent network effects, and yet it has received very little attention so far. his suggests that strong, early institutional support from an -like entity can be uniquely valuable in flipping the equilibrium toward a more privacy-focused ei landscape.nn is well-positioned to help guide ei's evolution toward these goals. or eamplennupporting nascent ei protocol to develop privacy featuresnnncouraging mature protocols to strengthen efipunk properties with research collaborations, liquidity, legitimacy, and other resourcesnnromoting research and development of decentralized snn more complete list of criteria for project support can be found in §..nn.. efipunk starts at homenndvocating for open source, privacy and other efipunk goals etends far beyond , but include ’s own internal operations where possible. sing efipunk principles in the ’s own treasury management is a key first step in this regard. ore generally, the  can use secureware tools, build a prudent operational structure that is supportive of all qualified contributors, including anon and pseudonymous participants, and otherwise improve its security and privacy practices. his will help the  remain principled and grow in strength, stability, and the ability to stand firm.nntaff involved in treasury management should use and/or contribute to open-source, privacy-preserving tools for routine tasks, especially if this requires upskilling in those areas. y taking care to live and breathe efipunk principles in its own activities,  will stay on target and gain the capabilities to support the rest of the ecosystem in doing the same.nn.. efipunk riteriannhese are concrete criteria for internal evaluation of protocols and s, intended to encourage new projects to start, and eisting projects to improve. hey will apply to all of ’snnfuturennonchain deployments. hile some criteria (e.g.,nnpermissionless access, self-custody, andnnnn) are straightforward binary determinants for deployment, others are more comple. or now, projects are not required to sit at the “ideal” end of every ais. e look for credible progress and a roadmap for improvement, rather than perfection on day one. e share the framework openly to provide legibility for  decisions and build alignment on these aes, and so that the wider community can consider, adapt, or apply them when forming its own views.nnermissionless accessnnannnanyonenninteract with the core smart contracts without  or whitelistingnnelf ustodynnoes the protocol allow users to maintain self-custody and present it as defaultnnree-ibre & pen ource ()nns the contract code free-libre open-source, with either a copyleft license (e.g., ) or a permissive license (e.g., , pache) ource-available (e.g., ) does  qualify.nnrivacynnransactions oes it offer options for shielding t origins/destinations/amountsnntate s user/personal data and/or position information shielded onchainnnata oes the protocol (and its typical s) avoid unnecessary collection of user data (e.g., user-agent) and personal data (e.g.,  addresses)nnpen evelopment rocessesnns the development process reasonably transparentnnre code repositories publicly accessible and actively maintainednnre protocol changes documented with clear rationales and versioning historynns there visibility into the decision-making process for upgrades, parameters, and roadmapsnnaimally rustless ore ogicnnmmutability is the fundamental logic of the protocol non-upgradeable or governed by a highly decentralized, time-locked, and transparent process (void admin keys with broad powers.)nnaimal viable cryptoeconomics does the protocol rely maimally on cryptographic guarantees & economic incentives, and reduce the use of legal wrappers (like collateralization assurances) or offchain enforcement to the bare minimum required for its core functionnnracle reliancennoes it minimize reliance on oracles, and minimize losses in cases where the oracle is compromisednnoes it use robust, decentralized, governance-minimized and manipulation-resistant oracles wherever oracles are necessarynneneral ecuritynnre the contracts audited, and processes in place to track the audited commit hash against what was last deployed, ideally including monitoring/alerting when the diff changesnnre contract properties formally verified or at least bytecode-verified on block eplorersnnistributed snnre there multiple independent snns the primary  open source and hosted in a decentralized mannernnan users interact directly with contractsnnnduring tewardshipnnhe  is here to stay for a long time and needs a robust long-term treasury management policy. e have for a long time simply held , but are now increasingly moving into staking and ei, both to enhance financial sustainability and to support a key application category that is delivering on the promise of permissionless secure access to base civilizational infrastructure for millions of people today. ’s involvement in these areas is well-positioned to set precedents for tool use that is responsible and compatible with its underlying goals. o do this, it will invest heavily in skilling up its own competency over time.nnf you have ideas that contribute to   ei, please fill outnnthis formnn.