Titre: crypto renaissance\nAuteur: Mihai Alisie\nDate: September 2, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/09/02/crypto-renaissance\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\n“he best way to predict the future is to invent it.” lan aynnanuary rd nnmarked the beginning of a new era. he invention of the blockchain is a milestone in technology -- the string of charactersnnrpqywbiqogonnbeingnnjustnnonennof the side effects triggered by it. hanks to you and this technology, more than thirty one thousand bitcoins will go towards spawning an entire new digital realm. he unfettered peer to peer world wide digital finance grid is building itself out.nnounnmake this possible.nnore than  years ago, the earliest economic systems were introduced in esopotamia, setting the foundations of modern society. s a word, esopotamia, originates from ancient reek and stands for "land] between the rivers". s a civilization, one of their greatest achievements was the introduction of the so callednncuneiform scriptnn. his marked the beginning of the information revolution within human society.nnnlike thereum code, this invention consisted in wedge-shaped marks on clay tablets, made with a blunt reed. s rudimentary as this might sound today, this invention gave birth to concepts and solutions previously unheard of in a variety of areas such as accounting and legal contracts. he introduction of this new method for storing and distributing information and wealth made esopotamia one of the largest and most thriving civilizations of its era.nnhe unintended side-effects of this invention have led to our currentnninformation agennsociety. efore arriving to our modern information systems, our civilization went through three major recent information revolutionsnnrinting pressnnelecomsnnnternetnnraces of these information revolutions can be seen everywhere from health tonnmanufacturingnnsectors, all pointing towards a decentralized,nninterconnected futurenn.nnow, the crypto information revolution is underway. he centralized economy paradigm society created thousands of years ago was a successful social eperiment that has ultimately led humanity here, but now we have reached a point wherennwe can cross the rivernn. he currently available technologies provide us a new advanced toolkit designed for distributing and storing both information and wealth…nnat light speed.nnhis is crypto renaissance in full swing.nnthe (collaborative) information agenn“f you look at history, innovation doesn't come just from giving people incentives it comes from creating environments where their ideas can connect.” teven ohnsonnnround the th century, the second huge information revolution was brewing thanks to ohannes utenberg’s invention of  the printing press. nlike its predecessors, this invention included moveable type faces enabling efficient and affordable printing production. y opening information dissemination on a larger scale and breadth than ever before, this invention fostered a new culture which created new opportunities for intellectual and societal growth.nnt appears that each time a new information technology becomes available, a number of patterns start to emerge. s a thought eperiment, if we would overlap today’s technological renaissance with the th-th century renaissance we would observe the followingnnntroduced a new method for storing and distributing information in societynneriod marked by important technical achievements allowing a faster propagation of ideasnngnited eperimentation and an intellectual revitalizationnnriggered paradigm shifts deepening our understanding of the world, ourselves and the universennesulted in social, political and economic transformationsnnf we draw the parallels we can see how information technologies enable positive growth within society since esopotamian ages. t furthers progress in most fields by creating accessible mediums of information and that lead to a participatory culture with lesser or without social limitations.nnn the th and st century, humanity as a whole accelerated immensely. he first big step towards creating a new medium for information that propelled our society into the information age was the invention of the microchip. his technology made general computing possible. ater on, the nternet emerged as a global system of interconnected computer networks that use a standard protocol suite (/) to link billions of devices worldwide.nnoday, the nternet is an international mesh network connecting more than two billion people allowing the free* flow of information, wealth and services to be echanged without boundaries. his has set the stage for an eplosion of interesting new concepts to materialize.nnhe ripples caused by this information revolution can be felt throughout the fabric of our society as storms of bits eroding the pillars of a centralized paradigm. he nternet is one of the most powerful social eperiments ever invented.nnrom a collaborative perspective, the nternet and technology in general became a creation catalyst, eponentially increasing our collaborative potential. urthermore, the cost of coordination and collaboration was reduced drastically by making all participants with nternet access universally available and connected.nnhis allowed us as humans to transcend time and space limitations -- keystroke by keystroke.nnemerging patterns free culture and open movementsnnwitter etwork izualizednn“n real open source, you have the right to control your own destiny.”nninus orvaldsnntarted around the s, the earliest form of free software cultural movement has been ignited by ichard tallman and his peers through their work tackling access and dissemination of information in this new technological realm.nns digital freedom culture ideals spread across this new information grid the number of free software initiatives grew and evolved in different ways from encryption algorithms to operating systems to blockchain technologies.nnany established scholars of innovation did not anticipate the emergence of a distributed and open model for innovation that can aggressively compete with traditionally closed and proprietary models. ooking back, who could have epected that swarms of online individuals acting without monetary incentive would build through distributed ad-hoc processes the largest encyclopedic body of knowledge in human history, or one of icrosoft’s most aggressive competitorsnnn this line of thinking, open source can be seen as a pattern of collaboration in itself, being part of a bigger patternnnopen collaborationnn. ccording to ikipedia, open collaboration is described asnn"any system of innovation or production that relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants, who interact to create a product (or service) of economic value, which they make available to contributors and non-contributors alike"nn.nnpen collaboration appears as a pattern in many areas of our lives and represents one of the underlying principles behind many great achievements on the nternet.nnikipedia and inu are perfect eamples of open cultures of knowledge advancing, edit by edit. heir eistence stands as a monument depicting the collaborative power of loosely associated groups, challenging  and transcending centralized architectures.nnpen source continues to fascinate many economists, sociologists, scientists and many others thanks to its collaborative ability to defy economic dogmas based on top-down closed-control principles. hese communities thrive thanks to decentralized problem solving, self-selected participation and self organization resulting in open collaboration. he emergence of these organizational models and sheer numbers of participants, in the hundreds of thousands, raised the question of motivation “hy do these people work and participate for 'free'”nnhe common view of purely self-interested participants, is clearly not the answer when many participate with no promise of a direct financial reward for their efforts. f writing code, designing decentralized software architectures, and solving tough cryptographic problems are construed by outsiders to be unremunerated blood, sweat, and tears, the contributors themselves are more likely to insist that the work is a source of significant satisfaction that derives from the pure joy of engagement in the work, or with the group or community, or both.nnhe answer seems to lie in a more epansive view of ourselves as human beings that acknowledges, as well as the role of economic motivations, notions of enjoyment and having fun together with identity and the social benefits of community. hallenge, enjoyment, and creativity are hallmarks of participation in this paradigm.nnhrough their work and actions these open source communities,  reveal macronnhomo reciprocannnpatterns. hese patterns are valuable because they can offer insights into why things work this way or more precisely in this casenn“how do we work this way and what can we learn from it”nn.nnhen you start considering the possibility that our species might actually be a collaborative rather than competitive one you're faced with a number of beliefs deeply encroached in our current society and world view.nnhe current world wide accepted assumption is that our race appears to be composed of selfish individualsnnhomo economicusnn, however this theory is challenged by billions of lines of running code and millions of individuals working together for free.nnethereum project as a distributed innovation networknn“f you really want to innovate, it seems that decentralization generates eperimentation. ou want to discover what works and what doesn’t.”nnicholas loomnnpen source communities represent the most radical edge of openness and sharing observed to date in comple technology development. he ethos of sharing and modification etends beyond code to the actual technology development process in the sense that community members engage in joint problem solving via open sharing of ideas and ongoing interaction. e can witness this behavior in ournnetherean communitynnas well, with people swarming around common interests and values.nndopting a monolith organizational structure was clearly not an optimal solution for this project as classic centralized organizations usually move and adapt, if they do, at glacier speed compared to these agile swarms of individuals.nnhis is how our pursuit for a decentralized organizational structure, which creates favorable conditions for innovation and eperimentation began. he core ideas behind distributed innovation appeared to fit best our needs.nnistributed innovation systems are designed from the ground up to lower the cost of participation for contributors. hy is that important irstly, because nurturing growth at the edges was always an important thought for us. nd secondly, by reducing or eliminating barriers to entry you epand the population that can self-select into the community.nnhe above diagram depicts the structure of the project in the contet of multiple autonomous entities collaborating on different initiatives. n the collaboration process eperimentation and co-eperimentation are encouraged, hopefully sparking a wave of technologies and innovations that can be generally described as world positive.nnhis creates a novel ecosystem for knowledge creation and presents both challenges and opportunities. n the upside it is compatible with the  framework that we're seeking to implement in the near future. n the downside it's an eperiment in itself might not go too well. n a true open source fashion,  feedback, suggestions and improvements are welcome.nno summarize, many industries and institutions that are deeply entrenched within our society will most likely undergo significant changes in the coming years. ost probably we will also undergo significant changes but if anything, when we look at the  the bigger picture, it appears that man's capacity for self-transformation is the only constant in our history.nnalmost nothing has been invented yetnncaption id"attachment_" align"aligncenter" width""]nnhomas uhn used the duck-rabbit optical illusion to demonstrate the way in which a paradigmnnshift could cause one to see the same information in an entirely different way./caption]nnan on the rainnney, are you a dreamernnhe reamernneah.nnan on the rainnnaven't seen too many of you around lately. hings have been tough lately for dreamers. hey say dreaming is dead, no one does it anymore. t's not dead it's just that it's been forgotten, removed from our language. obody teaches it so nobody knows it eists. nd the dreamer is banished to obscurity. ell, 'm trying to change all that, and  hope you are too. y dreaming, every day. reaming with our hands and dreaming with our minds. ur planet is facing the greatest problems it's ever faced, ever. o whatever you do, don't be bored. his is absolutely the most eciting time we could have possibly hoped to be alive. nd things are just starting.nn--nnaking ifenn“verything that can be invented has been invented” is a quote attributed to former .. atent ffice irector, harles . uell. upposedly this was said during the  century when the traditional road to innovation was paved in secrecy and emphasized the accumulation of patents and intellectual property.nnoday, thanks to countless open innovations we appear to be (very) far from having invented everything. e are only scratching the surface - the more we invent, the more others can epand upon those ideas. e are standing on the shoulders of taller and taller giants accelerating in their growth.nnt the same time, during this period of rapid acceleration it is starting to become much clearer that if we are to survive as a species we need to learn to worknntogethernn. he divide and conquer era is approaching its end. he united and empowered era is shining its light through millions of open minds co-architecting the net societal operating system.nne learned from the first renaissance that technology enables a positive growth within society, through accessible mediums of information encouraging a participatory culture devoid of social limitations. he nternet gave humanity a worldwide renaissance coffee shop where people with very different skills and areas of knowledge can bump into each other and echange ideas.nnlockchain technologies offer us now a new medium for information storage and distribution.  fractal of opportunities is opening in front of our minds. he technology, knowledge and world-wide community support required to transcend century old paradigms moving closer towards a free, open and non-proprietary world are now within reach.nnhis is definitely the most eciting time we could have hoped to be alive.nnnd things are just starting.