Titre: Ethereum: Now Going Public\nAuteur: Vitalik Buterin\nDate: January 23, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/01/23/ethereum-now-going-public\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nfirst wrote the initial draft of the thereum whitepaper on a cold day in an rancisco in ovember, as a culmination of months of thought and often frustrating work into an area that we have come to call “cryptocurrency .″ – in short, using the itcoin blockchain for more than just money. n the months leading up to the development of thereum,  had the privilege to work closely with several projects attempting to implement colored coins, smart property, and various types of decentralized echange. t the time,  was ecited by the sheer potential that these technologies could bring, as  was acutely aware that many of the major problems still plaguing the itcoin ecosystem, including fraudulent services, unreliable echanges, and an often surprising lack of security, were not caused by itcoin’s unique property of decentralization rather, these issues are a result of the fact that there was still great centralization left, in places where it could potentially quite easily be removed.nnhat  soon realized, however, was the sheer difficulty that many of these projects were facing, and the often ugly technological hacks that were required to make them work. nd, once one looks at the problem carefully, the culprit becomes obvious fragmentation. ach individual project was attempting to implement its own blockchain or meta-layer on top of itcoin, and considerable effort was being duplicated and interoperability lost as a result. ventually,  realized that the key to solving the problem once and for all was a simple insight that the field of computer science first conceived in  there is no need to construct a separate infrastructure for each individual feature and implementation rather, it is possible to create a uring-complete programming language, and allow everyone to use that language to implement any feature that can be mathematically defined. his is how our computers work, and this is how our web browsers work and, with thereum, this is how our cryptocurrencies can work.nnince that moment, thereum has come very far over the past two months. he thereum team has epanded to include dozens of developers including avin ood and effrey ilcke, lead developers of the ++ and o implementations, respectively, as well as others including harles oskinson, nthony i orio and ihai lisie, and dozens of other incredibly talented individuals who are unfortunately too many to mention. any of them have even come to understand the project so deeply as to be better at eplaining thereum than myself. here are now over fifteen people in our developer chat rooms actively working on the ++ and o implementations, which are already surprisingly close to having all the functionality needed to run in a testnet. side from development effort, there are dozens of people operating around the world in our marketing and community outreach team, developing the non-technical infrastructure needed to make the thereum ecosystem the solid and robust community that it deserves to be. nd now, at this stage, we have made a collective decision that we are ready to take our organization much more public than we have been before.nnhat s thereumnnn short, thereum is a net-generation cryptographic ledger that intends to support numerous advanced features, including user-issued currencies, smart contracts, decentralized echange and even what we think is the first proper implementation of decentralized autonomous organizations (s) or companies (s). owever, this is not what makes thereum special. ather, what makes thereum special is the way that it does this. nstead of attempting to specifically support each individual type of functionality as a feature, thereum includes a built-in uring-complete scripting language, which allows you to code the features yourself through a mechanism known as “contracts”.  contract is like an autonomous agent that runs a certain piece of code every time a transaction is sent to it, and this code can modify the contract’s internal data storage or send transactions. dvanced contracts can even modify their own code.nn simple eample of a contract would be a basic name registration system, allowing users to register their name with their address. his contract would not send transactions its sole purpose is to build up a database which other nodes can then query. he contract, written in our high-levelnn-ike anguage ()nn(or perhaps more accurately ython-like language), looks as followsnnif t.value  block.basefee * 
stop
if contract.storaget.data]] or t.data]  
stop
contract.storaget.data]]  t.data]nnnd there you have it. ive lines of code, eecuted simultaneously by thousands of nodes around the world, and you have the beginnings of a solution to a major problem in cryptography human-friendly authentication. t is important to point out that when the original version of thereum’s scripting code was designed we did not have name registration in mind rather, the fact that this is possible came about as an emergent property of its uring-completeness. opefully this will give you an insight into eactly what thereum makes possible for more applications, with code, seennthe whitepapernn. ust a few eamples includennser-issued currencies / “colored coins”nnecentralized echangenninancial contracts, including leverage trading and hedgingnnrop insurancennavings wallets with withdrawal limitsnneer to peer gamblingnnecentralized ropbo-style data storagennecentralized autonomous organizationsnnerhaps now you see why we are ecited.nnho is thereumnnhe core thereum team includes four membersnnitalik uterinnnitalik uterin first joined the itcoin community in arch , and co-founded itcoin agazine with ihai lisie in eptember . e was admitted to the niversity of aterloo to study computer science in , and in  made the decision to leave aterloo to travel through itcoin communities around the world and work on itcoin projects full time. italik is responsible for a number of itcoin projects, includingnnpybitcointoolsnn,nna fork of itcoinnnandnnmultisig.infonn now, he has returned to anada and is fully dedicated to working on thereum.nnihai lisiennihai lisie’s first foray into the itcoin community is itcoin agazine, in eptember . rom ssue #, which was shipped from his living room in omania, to today itcoin agazine bears ihai’s imprint, and has grown as he has grown with the magazine. hat started out as a team of people that didn’t have any eperience in the publishing industry, is now distributing a physical magazine internationally and in arnes & oble bookstores across the . ihai is also involved in an innovative online e-commerce startup known as gora.nnnthony i orionnnthony i orio is a ounding ember, oard ember & ecutive irector of thennitcoin lliance of anadann, ounder of thennoronto itcoin eetup roupnn, and partner / founder in various itcoin start-ups and initiatives including the in-browser itcoin walletnnryptoitnn,nnointalknn, the oronto-based itcoin hub and coworking spacennitcoin ecentralnn,nnitcoin cross mericann, and the lobal itcoin lliance.nnharles oskinsonnnharles oskinson is an entrepreneur and cryptographer actively working on ventures in the itcoin ecosystem. e founded both the itcoin ducation roject and nvictus nnovations prior to accepting his current role as a core developer of the thereum roject. e studied at etropolitan tate niversity of enver and niversity of olorado at oulder with an emphasis in nalytic umber heory. harles is known for his love of economics, horology and s alongside a passion for chess and games of strategy.nne also have an ecellent team of developers, entrepreneurs, marketers and evangelistsnnr. avin oodnn ore ++ evelopernneff bscurann ore o evelopernnr. manuele ostann uantitative nalyst  asternnoseph ubinnn oftware ngineering, uantitative nalystnnric ombrozonn oftware rchitectnna ayenn evelopernnonathan ohannn edia, arketing and vangelism (itcoin)nnendell avisnn trategic artner and randing (ive allet)nnnthony onofrionn ogos, branding, eb evelopment (ive allet)nnaylor erringnn eb evelopmentnnaul nownn anguage evelopment, oftware evelopmentnnhris domnn trategic artner, eveloper (pen ransactions)nnerry iu and in unn hinese strategy and translations (nnhttp//www.btc.com/ethereumnn)nnai guyennn ccountingnnmir hetritnn usiness evelopment (olored oins)nnteve akhnn eveloper (ryptoit)nnkyle urbegovichnn edia (ointalk)nnooking orwardnn personally will be presenting at the itcoin conference in iami on an -. oon after that, on ebruary , the ether pre-sale will begin, at which point anyone will be able to obtain some of the initial pre-allocated ether (thereum’s internal currency) at a rate of - ether for   by going tonnhttp//fund.ethereum.orgnn. he pre-sale will run throughout ebruary and arch, and early funders will get higher rewards anyone who sends money in the first seven days will receive the full  ether, then  ether on the th day,  on the th day, and so forth until the baseline rate of  ether per  is retained for the last three days of the pre-sale.nne will be able to develop fully functional and robust thereum clients with as little as   funding with current rates basic implementations in o, ++ and ython are coming close to testnet quality already. owever, we are seeking to go much further than that. thereum is not “just another altcoin” it is a new way forward for cryptocurrency, and ultimately for peer-to-peer protocols as a whole. o that end, we would like to be able to invest a large quantity of funds into securing top-notch talent for improving the security and scalability of the thereum network itself, but also supporting a robust thereum ecosystem hopefully bringing other cryptocurrency and peer-to-peer projects into our fold. e are already well underway in talks with ryptoit, umint and penransactions, and are interested in working with other groups such as ahoe-, itmessage and itcloud as well.nnll of these projects can potentially benefit from integrating with the thereum blockchain in some fashion, simply because the layer is so universal because of its uring-completeness, an thereum contract can be constructed to incentivize nearly everything, and even entirely non-financial uses such as public key registration have etremely wide-reaching benefits for any decentralized cryptographic product that intends to include, for eample, a social network. ll of these projects will add great value to the thereum ecosystem, and the thereum ecosystem will hopefully add great value to them. e do not wish to compete with any organization we intend to work together.nnhroughout the fundraiser, we will be working hard on development we will release a centralized testnet, a server to which anyone can push contracts and transactions, very soon, and will then follow up with a decentralized testnet to test networking features and mining algorithms. e also intend to host a contest, similar to those used to decide the algorithms for the dvanced ncryption tandard () in  and  in , in which we invite researchers from universities around the world to compete to develop the best possible specialized hardware-resistant, centralization-resistant and fair mining algorithms, and will also eplore alternatives such as proof of stake, proof of burn and proof of ecellence. etails on this will be further released in ebruary.nninally, to promote local community development, we also intend to create public community hubs and incubators, which we are tentatively calling “holons”, in several cities around the world. he first holon will be based inside of itcoin ecentral in oronto, and a substantial portion of thereum development will take place there anyone who is seriously interested in participating heavily in thereum should consider giving us a visit over the net month. ther cities we are looking into include an rancisco, msterdam, el viv and some city in sia this part of the project is still in a very early phase of development, and more details will come over the net month.nnor now feel free to check out our resourcesnnorumnnhttp//forum.ethereum.orgnnlognnhttp//blog.ethereum.orgnnikinnhttp//wiki.ethereum.orgnnhitepapernnhttps//ethereum.org/ethereum.htmlnnedditnnhttp//reddit.com/r/ethereum