Titre: An Introduction to Futarchy\nAuteur: Vitalik Buterin\nDate: August 21, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/08/21/introduction-futarchy\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nne of the more interesting long-term practical benefits of the technology and concept behindnndecentralized autonomous organizationsnnis that s allow us to very quickly prototype and eperiment with an aspect of our social interactions that is so far arguably falling behind our rapid advancements in information and social technology elsewhere organizational governance. lthough our modern communications technology is drastically augmenting individuals' naturally limited ability to both interact andnngathernnandnnprocessnninformation, the governance processes we have today are still dependent on what may now be seen as centralized crutches and arbitrary distinctions such as "member", "employee", "customer" and "investor" - features that were arguably originally necessary because of thenninherent difficultiesnnof managing large numbers of people up to this point, but perhaps no longer. ow, it may be possible to create systems that are more fluid and generalized that take advantage of the full power law curve of people's ability and desire to contribute. here are a number of new governance models that try to take advantage of our new tools to improve transparency and efficiency, includingnnliquid democracynnandnnholacracynn the one that  will discuss and dissect today isnnfutarchynn.nnhe idea behind futarchy wasnnoriginally proposednnby economist obin anson as a futuristic form of government, following the slogan vote values, but bet beliefs. nder this system, individuals would vote not on whether or not to implement particular policies, but rather on a metric to determine how well their country (or charity or company) is doing, and thennnprediction marketsnnwould be used to pick the policies that best optimize the metric. iven a proposal to approve or reject, two prediction markets would be created each containing one asset, one market corresponding to acceptance of the measure and one to rejection. f the proposal is accepted, then all trades on the rejection market would be reverted, but on the acceptance market after some time everyone would be paid some amount per token based on the futarchy's chosen success metric, and vice versa if the proposal is rejected. he market is allowed to run for some time, and then at the end the policy with the higher average token price is chosen.nnur interest in futarchy, as eplained above, is in a slightly different form and use case of futarchy, governing decentralized autonomous organizations and cryptographic protocols however,  am presenting the use of futarchy in a national government first because it is a more familiar contet. o to see how futarchy works, let's go through an eample.nnuppose that the success metric chosen is  in trillions of dollars, with a time delay of ten years, and there eists a proposed policy "bail out the banks". wo assets are released, each of which promises to pay $ per token per trillion dollars of  after ten years. he markets might be allowed to run for two weeks, during which the "yes" token fetches an average price of $. (meaning that the market thinks that the  after ten years will be $. trillion) and the "no" token fetches an average price of $.. he banks are not bailed out. ll trades on the "yes" market are reverted, and after ten years everyone holding the asset on the "no" market gets $. apiece.nnypically, the assets in a futarchy are zero-supply assets, similar to ipple s ornnitssetsnn. his means that the only way the tokens can be created is through a derivatives market individuals can place orders to buy or sell tokens, and if two orders match the tokens are transferred from the buyer to the seller in echange for . t's possible to sell tokens even if you do not have them the only requirement in that case is that the seller must put down some amount of collateral to cover the eventual negative reward. n important consequence of the zero-supply property is that because the positive and negative quantities, and therefore rewards cancel each other out, barring communication and consensus costs the market is actually free to operate.nnhe rgument ornnutarchy has become a controversial subject since the idea was originally proposed. he theoretical benefits are numerous. irst of all, futarchy fies the "voter apathy" and "rational irrationality" problem in democracy, where individuals do not have enough incentive to even learn about potentially harmful policies because the probability that their vote will have an effect is insignificant (estimated atnn in  millionnnfor a  government national election) in futarchy, if you have or obtain information that others do not have, you can personally substantially profit from it, and if you are wrong you lose money. ssentially, you are literally putting your money where your mouth is.nnecond, over time the market has an evolutionary pressure to get better the individuals who are bad at predicting the outcome of policies will lose money, and so their influence on the market will decrease, whereas the individuals who are good at predicting the outcome of policies will see their money and influence on the market increase. ote that this is essentially the eact same mechanic through which economists argue that traditional capitalism works at optimizing the production ofnnprivate goodsnn, ecept in this case it also applies tonncommonnnandnnpublic goodsnn.nnhird, one could argue that futarchy reduces potentially irrational social influences to the governance process. t is a well-known fact that, at least in the th century, the taller presidential candidate has beennnmuch more likely to winnnthe election (interestingly, thennopposite biasnneisted pre- a possible hypothesis is that the switchover was caused by thenncontemporaneous rise of televisionnn), and there is the well-known story about voters picking eorge ush because he was the president "nnthey would rather have a beer withnn". n futarchy, the participatory governance process will perhaps encourage focusing more purely on proposals rather than personalities, and the primary activity is the most introverted and unsocial affair imaginable poring over models, statistical analyses and trading charts.nn market you would rather have a beer withnnhe system also elegantly combines public participation and professional analysis. any people decry democracy as a descent to mediocrity and demagoguery, and prefer decisions to be made by skilled technocratic eperts. utarchy, if it works, allows individual eperts and even entire analysis firms to make individual investigations and analyses, incorporate their findings into the decision by buying and selling on the market, and make a profit from the differential in information between themselves and the public - sort of like an information-theoretic hydroelectric dam ornnosmosis-based power plantnn. ut unlike more rigidly organized and bureaucratic technocracies with a sharp distinction between member and non-member, futarchies allow anyone to participate, set up their own analysis firm, and if their analyses are successful eventually rise to the top - eactly the kind ofnngeneralizationnnand fluidity we are looking for.nnhe rgument gainstnnhe opposition to futarchy is most well-summarized in two posts,nnone by encius oldbugnnand thennother by aul ewittnn. oth posts are long, taking up thousands of words, but the general categories of opposition can be summarized as followsnn single powerful entity or coalition wishing to see a particular result can continue buying "yes" tokens on the market and short-selling "no" tokens in order to push the token prices in its favor.nnarkets in general are known to be volatile, and this happens to a large etent because markets are "self-referential" - ie. they consist largely of people buying because they see others buying, and so they are not good aggregators of actual information. his effect is particularly dangerous because it can be eploited by market manipulation.nnhe estimated effect of a single policy on a global metric is much smaller than the "noise" of uncertainty in what the value of the metric is going to be regardless of the policy being implemented, especially in the long term. his means that the prediction market's results may prove to be wildly uncorrellated to the actual delta that the individual policies will end up having.nnuman valuesnnare complenn, and it is hard to compress them into one numerical metric in fact, there may be just as many disagreements about what the metric should be as there are disagreements about policy now. dditionally, a malicious entity that in current democracy would try to lobby through a harmful policy might instead be able to cheat the futarchy by lobbying in an addition to the metric that is known to very highly correllate with the policy.nn prediction market is zero-sum hence, because participation has guaranteed nonzero communication costs, it is irrational to participate. hus, participation will end up quite low, so there will not be enough market depth to allow eperts and analysis firms to sufficiently profit from the process of gathering information.nnn the first argument,nnthis video debatennbetween obin anson and encius oldbug, with avid riedman (ilton's son) later chiming in, is perhaps the best resource. he argument made by anson and riedman is that the presence of an organization doing such a thing successfully would lead to a market where the prices for the "yes" and "no" tokens do not actually reflect the market's best knowledge, presenting a massive profit-earning opportunity for people to put themselves on the opposite side of the attempted manipulation and thereby move the price back closer to the correct equilibrium. n order to give time for this to happen, the price used in determining which policy to take is taken as an average over some period of time, not at one instant. s long as the market power of people willing to earn a profit by counteracting manipulation eceeds the market power of the manipulator, the honest participants will win and etract a large quantity of funds from the manipulator in the process. ssentially, for anson and riedman, sabotaging a futarchy requires a % attack.nnhe most common rebuttal to this argument, made more eloquently by ewitt, is the "self-referential" property of markets mentioned above. f the price for "trillions of   in ten years if we bail out the banks" starts off $., and the price for "trillions of   in ten years if we don't bail out the banks" starts off $., but then one day the two cross over to $. for yes and $. for no, would people actually know that the values are off and start making trades to compensate, or would they simply take the new prices as an indicator of what the market thinks and accept or even reinforce them, as is often theorized to happen in speculative bubblesnnelf-referencennhere is actually one reason to be optimistic here. raditional markets may perhaps be often self-referential, and cryptocurrency markets especially so because they have no intrinsic value (ie. the only source of their valuennisnntheir value), but the self-reference happens in part for a different reason than simply investors following each other like lemmings. he mechanism is as follows. uppose that a company is interested in raising funds through share issuance, and currently has a million shares valued at $, so a market cap of $ million it is willing to dilute its holders with a % epansion. hus, it can raise $ million. he market cap of the company is supposed to target the total amount of dividends that the company will ever pay out, with future dividendsnnappropriately discountednnby some interest rate hence, if the price is stable, it means that the market epects the company to eventually release the equivalent of $ million in total dividends innnpresent valuenn.nnow, suppose the company's share price doubles for some reason. he company can now raise $ million, allowing it to do twice as much. sually, capital ependiture has diminishing returns, but not always it may happen that with the etra $ million capital the company will be able to earn twice as much profit, so the new share price will be perfectly justified - even though the cause of the jump from $ to $ may have been manipulation or random noise. itcoin has this effect in an especially pronounced way when the price goes up, all itcoin users get richer, allowing them to build more businesses, justifying the higher price level. he lack of intrinsic value for itcoin means thatnnthe self-referential effect is the only effectnnhaving influence on the price.nnrediction markets do not have this property at all. side from the prediction market itself, there is no plausible mechanism by which the price of the "yes" token on a prediction market will have any impact on the  of the  in ten years. ence, the only effect by which self-reference can happen is the "everyone follows everyone else's judgement" effect. owever, the etent of this effect is debatable perhaps because of the very recognition that the effect eists, there is now an established culture of smart contrarianism in investment, and politics is certainly an area where people are willing to keep to unorthodo views. dditionally, in a futarchy, the relevant thing is not how high individual prices are, but which one of the two isnnhighernn if you are certain that bailouts are bad, but you see the yes-bailout price is now $. higher for some reason, you know that something is wrong so, in theory, you might be able to pretty reliably profit from that.nnbsolutes and differentialsnnhis is where we get to the cru of the real problem it's not clear how you can. onsider a more etreme case than the yes/no bailouts decision a company using a futarchy to determine how much to pay their . herennhave been studiesnnsuggesting that ultra-high-salary s actually do not improve company performance - in fact, much the opposite. n order to fi this problem, why not use the power of futarchy and the market decide how much value the  really provides ave a prediction market for the company's performance if the  stays on, and if the  jumps off, and take the 's salary as a standard percentage of the difference. e can do the same even for lower-ranking eecutives and if futarchy ends up being magically perfect even the lowliest employee.nnow, suppose that you, as an analyst, predict that a company using such a scheme will have a share price of $. in twelve months if the  stays on, with a % confidence interval of $. (ie. you're % sure the price will be between $. and $.). ou also predict that the 's benefit to the share price is $. the % confidence interval that you have here is from $. to $.. his is pretty realistic generally errors in measuring a variable are proportional to the value of that variable, so the range on the  will be much lower. ow suppose that the prediction market has the token price of $. if the  stays on and $. if they leave in short, the market thinks the  is a rockstar, but you disagree. ut how do you benefit from thisnnhe initial instinct is to buy "no" shares and short-sell "yes" shares. ut how many of each ou might think "the same number of each, to balance things out", but the problem is that the chance the  will remain on the job is much higher than %. ence, the "no" trades will probably all be reverted and the "yes" trades will not, so alongside shorting the  what you are also doing is taking a much larger risk shorting the company. f you knew the percentage change, then you could balance out the short and long purchases such that on net your eposure to unrelated volatility is zero however, because you don't, the risk-to-reward ratio is very high (and even if you did, you would still be eposed to the variance of the company's global volatility you just would not be biased in any particular direction).nnrom this, what we can surmise is that futarchy is likely to work well for large-scale decisions, but much less well for finer-grained tasks. ence, a hybrid system may work better, where a futarchy decides on a political party every few months and that political party makes decisions. his sounds like giving total control to one party, but it's not note that if the market is afraid of one-party control then parties could voluntarily structure themselves to be composed of multiple groups with competing ideologies and the market would prefer such combinations in fact, we could have a system where politicians sign up as individuals and anyone from the public can submit a combination of politicians to elect into parliament and the market would make a decision over all combinations (although this would have the weakness that it is once again more personality-driven).nnutarchy and rotocols and snnll of the above was discussing futarchy primarily as a political system for managing government, and to a lesser etent corporations and nonprofits. n government, if we apply futarchy to individual laws, especially ones with relatively small effect like "reduce the duration of patents from  years to  years", we run into many of the issues that we described above. dditionally, the fourth argument against futarchy mentioned above, the compleity of values, is a particular sore point, since as described above a substantial portion of political disagreement is precisely in terms of the question of what the correct values are. etween these concerns, and political slowness in general, it seems unlikely that futarchy will be implemented on a national scale any time soon. ndeed, it has not even really been tried for corporations. ow, however, there is an entirely new class of entities for which futarchy might be much better suited, and where it may finally shine s.nno see how futarchy for s might work, let us simply describe how a possible protocol would run on top of thereumnnvery round,nnnnnew -tokens are issued. t the start of a round, anyone has the ability to make a proposal for how those coins should be distributed. e can simplify and say that a "proposal" simply consists of "send money to this address" the actual plan for how that money would be spent would be communicated on some higher-level channel like a forum, and trust-free proposals could be made by sending to a contract. uppose thatnnnnnsuch proposals,nn]nn...nnn]nn, are made.nnhe  generatesnnnnnpairs of assets,nni]nnandnni]nn, and randomly distributes thennnnunits of each type of token in some fashion (eg. to miners, to  token holders, according to a formula itself determined through prior futarchy, etc). he  also providesnnnnnmarkets, where marketnni]nnallows trade betweennni]nnandnni]nn.nnhe  watches the average price ofnni]nndenominated innni]nnfor all markets, and lets the markets run fornnbnnblocks (eg.  weeks). t the end of the period, if marketnnk]nnhas the highest average price, then policynnk]nnis chosen, and the net period begins.nnt that point, tokensnnj]nnandnnj]nnfornnj ! knnbecome worthless. okennnk]nnis worthnnmnnunits of some eternal reference asset (eg.  for a futarchy on top of thereum), and tokennnk]nnis worthnnznn tokens, where a good value fornnznnmight be . andnnmnnself-adjusts to keep ependitures reasonable. ote that for this to work the  would need to also sell its own tokens for the eternal reference asset, requiring another allocation perhapsnnmnnshould be targeted so the token ependiture to purchase the required ether isnnznn.nnssentially, what this protocol is doing is implementing a futarchy which is trying to optimize for the token's price. ow, let's look at some of the differences between this kind of futarchy and futarchy-for-government.nnirst, the futarchy here is making only a very limited kind of decision to whom to assign thennnntokens that are generated in each round. his alone makes the futarchy here much "safer".  futarchy-as-government, especially if unrestrained, has the potential to run into serious unepected issues when combined with thennfragility-of-valuennproblem suppose that we agree that  per capita, perhaps even with some offsets for health and environment, is the best value function to have. n that case, a policy that kills off the .% of the population that are not super-rich would win. f we pick plain , then a policy might win that etremely heavily subsidizes individuals and businesses from outside relocating themselves to be inside the country, perhaps using a % one-time capital ta to pay for a subsidy. f course, in reality, futarchies would patch the value function and make a new bill to reverse the original bill before implementing any such obvious egregious cases, but if such reversions become too commonplace then the futarchy essentially degrades into being a traditional democracy. ere, the worst that could happen is for all the  tokens in a particular round to go to someone who will squander them.nnecond, note the different mechanism for how the markets work. n traditional futarchy, we have a zero-total-supply asset that is traded into eistence on a derivatives market, and trades on the losing market are reverted. ere, we issue positive-supply assets, and the way that trades are reverted is that the entire issuance process is essentially reverted both assets on all losing markets become worth zero.nnhe biggest difference here is the question of whether or not people will participate. et us go back to the earlier criticism of futarchy, that it is irrational to participate because it is a zero-sum game. his is somewhat of a parado. f you have some inside information, then you might think that it is rational to participate, because you know something that other people don't and thus your epectation of the eventual settlement price of the assets is different from the market's hence, you should be able to profit from the difference. n the other hand, if everyone thinks this way, then even some people with inside information will lose out hence, the correct criterion for participating is something like "you should participate if you think you have better inside information than everyone else participating". ut if everyone thinks this way then the equilibrium will be that no one participates.nnere, things work differently. eople participate by default, and it's harder to say what not participating is. ou could cash out yournni]nnandnni]nncoins in echange for  tokens, but then if there's a desire to do that thennni]nnandnni]nnwould be undervalued and there would be an incentive to buy both of them. olding onlynni]nnis also not non-participating it's actually an epression of being bearish on the merits of policynni]nn same with holding onlynni]nn. n fact, the closest thing to a "default" strategy is holding whatevernni]nnandnni]nnyou get we can model this prediction market as a zero-supply market plus this etra initial allocation, so in that sense the "just hold" approachnnisnna default. owever, we can argue that the barrier to participation is much lower, so participation will increase.nnlso note that the optimization objective is simpler the futarchy is not trying to mediate the rules of an entire government, it is simply trying to maimize the value of its own token by allocating a spending budget. iguring out more interesting optimization objectives, perhaps ones that penalize common harmful acts done by eisting corporate entities, is an unsolved challenge but a very important one at that point, the measurement and metric manipulation issues might once again become more important. inally, the actual day-to-day governance of the futarchy actually does follow a hybrid model the disbursements are made once per epoch, but the management of the funds within that time can be left to individuals, centralized organizations, blockchain-based organizations or potentially other s. hus, we can epect the differences in epected token value between the proposals to be large, so the futarchy actually will be fairly effective - or at least more effective than the current preferred approach of "five developers decide".nnhynno what are the practical benefits of adopting such a scheme hat is wrong with simply having blockchain-based organizations that follow more traditional models of governance, or even more democratic ones ince most readers of this blog are already cryptocurrency advocates, we can simply say that the reason why this is the case is the same reason why we are interested in using cryptographic protocols instead of centrally managed systems - cryptographic protocols have a much lower need for trusting central authorities (if you are not inclined to distrust central authorities, the argument can be more accurately rephrased as "cryptographic protocols can more easily generalize to gain the efficiency, equity and informational benefits of being more participatory and inclusive without leading to the consequence that you end up trusting unknown individuals"). s far as social consequences go, this simple version of futarchy is far from utopia, as it is still fairly similar to a profit-maimizing corporation however, the two important improvements that it does make are () making it harder fornneecutivesnnmanaging the funds to cheat both the organization and society for their short-term interest, and () making governance radically open and transparent.nnowever, up until now, one of the major sore points for a cryptographic protocol is how the protocol can fund and govern itself the primary solution, a centralized organization with a one-time token issuance and presale, is basically a hack that generatesnninitialnnfunding andnninitialnngovernance at the cost ofnninitialnncentralization. oken sales, including our own thereum ether sale, have been a controversial topic, to a large etent because they introduce this blemish of centralization into what is otherwise a pure and decentralized cryptosystem however, if a new protocol starts off issuing itself as a futarchy from day one, then that protocol can achieve incentivization without centralization - one of thennkey breakthroughsnnin economics that make the cryptocurrency space in general worth watching.nnome may argue that inflationary token systems are undesirable and that dilution is bad however, an important point is that, if futarchy works, this scheme is guaranteed to be at least as effective as a fied-supply currency, and in the presence of a nonzero quantity of potentially satisfiablennpublic goodsnnit will be strictly superior. he argument is simple it is always possible to come up with a proposal that sends the funds to an unspendable address, so any proposal that wins would have to win against that baseline as well.nno what are the first protocols that we will see using futarchy heoretically, any of the higher-level protocols that have their own coin (eg. , tor, aidsafe), but without their own blockchain, could benefit from futarchy on top of thereum. ll that they would need to do is implement the futarchy in code (something which nnhave started to donnalready), add a pretty user interface for the markets, and set it going. lthough technically every single futarchy that starts off will be eactly the same, futarchy isnnchelling-pointnn-dependent if you create a website around one particular futarchy, label it "decentralized insurance", and gather a community around that idea, then it will be more likely that that particular futarchy succeeds if it actually follows through on the promise of decentralized insurance, and so the market will favor proposals that actually have something to do with that particular line of development.nnf you are building a protocol that will have a blockchain but does not yet, then you can use futarchy to manage a "protoshare" that will eventually be converted over and if you are building a protocol with a blockchain from the start you can always include futarchy right into the core blockchain code itself the only change will be that you will need to find something to replace the use of a "reference asset" (eg. nnnnhashes may work as a trust-free economic unit of account). f course, even in this form futarchy cannot be guaranteed to work it is only an eperiment, and may well prove inferior to other mechanisms like liquid democracy - or hybrid solutions may be best. ut eperiments are what cryptocurrency is all about.