Titre: Launching the Ether Sale\nAuteur: Vitalik Buterin\nDate: July 22, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/07/22/launching-the-ether-sale\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nirst of all,  would like to thank the community, and especially those close to the project who have in many cases abandoned their jobs to dedicate their time to it, for their etreme patience regarding the launch of the ether sale. e have been promising that the sale would arise in two weeks for si months, and many team members have endured substantial hardships because of epectations that we set regarding when we would be able to provide funding. e certainly miscalculated the sheer difficulty of navigating the relevant legal processes in the nited tates and witzerland, as well as the surprisingly intricate technical issues surrounding setting up a secure sale website and cold wallet system. owever, the long wait is finally over, and we are ecited to announce the launch of the sale.nnn the intervening si months, our time has been spent on the followingnneveloping the thereum clients, to the point where we now have four full implementations of the protocol, of which two are fully compatible and the other two nearly so. riginally, the intent was for only three implementations however, a member of the community (oman andeleil) has independently come forward with a functional ava client. o has been released today.nneveloping the thereum programming languages and compilers, to the point where we have moderately stable versions of erpent,  and utan.nneveloping the thereum protocol. ajor changes between ebruary and une includennhe transactions-pay-for-computation system, where a transaction specifies the amount of "gas" that it is allowed to consume and pre-pays a fee for it. riginally, contracts paid for computation, requiring every contract to have a security "wrapper" mandating a minimum fee to avoid balance-starvation attacks.nnhe concept of a recursive virtual machine, where contracts can "call" other contracts like functions and receive "return values" in response. his allows for a high level of generalization and code reuse in the blockchain, cutting down bloat.nn  to -second block time, down from s. his will be added in o.nnhe concept of "micro-chains", where the top-level block header will only contain o-relevant information, reducing the minimum storage and bandwidth requirements for a light node by  (although the fast block time will once again increase these requirements by ). his will be added in o.nnhe placement of transactions into a erkle tree, allowing for the development of a light client protocol for verification of individual transaction eecution.nnhe concept of memory as a byte array, making it easier to port eisting compilers to compiling thereum scripts.nnid-stage developments in the mining algorithm thanks primarily to the work of lad amfir. ore details should be released soon.nneveloping an increasingly large repertoire of testing facilities in order to help ensure cross-client compatibility.nnetting up our legal organizational structure in witzerland.nnegal due-diligence processes in the nited tates.nnther will be purchasable directly through our website atnnhttps//ethereum.orgnn. here are a number of documents providing more details on the sale as well, including a development plan (nnĐΞ nn), roadmap,nnntended se of evenue documentnn,nnerms and onditions of the thereum enesis alenn,nnther roduct urchase greement,nnand updatednnhite apernnandnnellow apernn. articularly note the followingnnther will  be usable or transferablennuntil the launch of the genesis block. hat is to say, when you buy ether and download your wallet, you will not be able to do anything with it until the genesis block launches.nnhe price of ether is initially set to a discounted price ofnn  per nn, and will stay this way fornn daysnnbefore linearly declining to a final rate ofnn  per nn. he sale will lastnn daysnn, concluding at  ug time eptember .nnhe epected launch time for the genesis block isnnwinter -nn. his date has been continually pushed back in large part due to funding delays, but development should soon start to proceed much more quickly.nnther is a product,nn a security or investment offeringnn. ther is simply a token useful for paying transaction fees or building or purchasing decentralized application services on the thereum platform it does not give you voting rights over anything, and we make no guarantees of its future value.nne are not blocking the  after all. ay.nnt is very likely that alternative versions of thereum (“alt-etherea” or “forks”) will be released as separate blockchains, and these chains will compete against the official thereum for value. uccessfully purchasing  from the enesis ale only guarantees that you will receive  on the official network, not any forks.nnhe erms and onditions of the thereum enesis ale, and the ther roduct urchase greement, are the only authoritative documents regarding the sale. ny statements that we have made up to this point are null and void.  he ethereum.org website, the blog posts since aylor erring's recent howto and other posts we have made on various forums including our forum and reddit are to be treated as informal communications designed to keep the community updated on what is happening with thereum.nnhe annual issuance rate isnn.nnthe initial quantity of ether sold, reduced from the . that had been proposed in anuary. e may choose later on to adopt alternative consensus strategies, such as hybrid proof of stake, so future patches may reduce the issuance rate lower. owever, we make absolutely no promises of this, ecept that the issuance rate will not eceed .% per annum of the quantity of ether sold in the enesis ale.nnhere arenntwo endowment pools, each .nnthe initial quantity of ether sold, that will be allocated in the first case to early contributors to the project and in the second case to a long-term endowment to our non-profit foundation (see sale docs for more info). his is reduced from our proposal in pril of . to early contributors and . to a foundation.nne reserve the right to use up to   from the pre-sale while the pre-sale is running in order to speed up development. e may or may not take this option depending on community response if done at all it will be done transparently.nnf you are eligible for backpay or a share of the early contributor pool, you will be contacted soon.nno  refresh the pagennwhile using the ether sale website.nnf you purchase ether,nn  lose your wallet file or your password or you will never be able to access your ether.nndditionally, make sure younndownload your walletnnin the first place.nnhe eodus address isnnrpqywbiqogonn however,nn  send  to this address directlynn, since transactions that are not properly formatted will be invalid and treated as gifts to thereum witzerland mb. se the sale application on the website. nlike some other projects, however, paying with  using our sale application from a oinbase account or an echange account poses no problems. he  address that you send from does not matter.nnor advanced users and those who are uncomfortable with purchasing through a website, a ython library for making purchases is also available atnnhttps//github.com/ethereum/pyethsaletoolnn.nnhe address is a -of- cold storage, multisig setup, between four centers which are themselves protected via mechanisms such as m-of-n hamir's ecret haring. hecknnthis transaction on blockchain.infonn, input , to see proof that we are capable of spending funds from the address. e will be releasing a more detailed description of the cold storage policy soon, although strategically important variables (eg. precise locations of the sites, passwords, combinations to safes) will unfortunately be kept secret.nnore information will be released throughout the sale, and we will soon have an  on eddit. e look forward to continuing this eciting journey together!