Titre: the ethereum project: learning to dream with open minds\nAuteur: Mihai Alisie\nDate: July 14, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/07/14/the-ethereum-project\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\n“nd those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.” riedrich ietzschennthereum as a project is more than just a technology, even if technology is at its core. n the rush of creating, co-creating and debugging everything you sometimes lose sight of the bigger picture. ou need stop for a second, take a step back and observe in order to fully appreciate what's going on.nnhe project started as an idea in italik’s mind. thereum, has now epanded into thousands and thousands of other minds around the world, thanks to this interconnected digital mesh called nternet.  sea of minds brought together by the idea of a turing complete general purpose blockchain is creating, as you’re reading these lines, the minecraft of blockchain tech.nnn all this ecitement we have had to think also, about how we can best ensure that the vision is not corrupted, while delivering the technology itself. his post is the first in a series that attempts to eplain both the ethos and motivation behind the project as a whole.nnsoulsearching for profit or notnnrom inception, our intention was to deliver a technology aligned with the community at large and to encourage a meritocratic culture based on trust, openness and respect - not only for our fellow ethereans but everyone - united by raw passion for positive world change.nnver the past few months the model of our organization and the very nature of this project has been in discussion - both amongst ourselves and between ourselves and the community. hey were healthy discussions and  would like to personally thank everyone who cared enough to share their thoughts on our forums, in a blog comment or a reddit post.nnt has been an intense and interesting journey. long the way it made us reflect upon our values while looking at ourselves and asking what this project really means to each and all of us. uring these long soul searching sessions we realized that most of the dichotomies boiled down to a single questionnnfor profit or notnnfter researching a number of models and organizations, we arrived at the conclusion that in order to keep the protocol and the software as pure as possible the only real option was to build a non-profit structure with a declared mission to develop, maintain, nurture and eplore the potential of this new technology. otivated not by money but radiant passion for this crazy idea of a free, open and decentralized world. hat’s what make us happy in the end and most importantly what makes us get up and work on this project, proudly saying today we're building tomorrow.nnetails regarding the non profit structure chosen will follow in a series of blogs. owever this blog post is not about details, more about the bigger picture andnnwhynnwe’re doing it in the first place.nncontinuing the eperimentnne all come from different backgrounds and life eperiences, but in the end we're all connected through this meaningful project which enables us to eplore our passions and ideas through code, art, hardware or sometimes something completely new.nny design this project is breaking new ground in a way that has not been tried before. his by definition is a trial and error eperiment, looking to continue the eperiment started by itcoin, on multiple levels. ince this has never been tried before, there are no right or wrong answers or concrete eperiences to fall back on. e are deep into uncharted territories.nnven if we do not yet grasp the full applications and implications, the sheer number of ideas and initiatives sparked by the core idea itself is encouraging, and gives us a glimpse at the limitless potential of our minds - we are architecting and co-creating our own future "reality".nn like to look at the ethereum project as a blank canvas, where anyone can create digital masterpieces. he technology behind it serving as a catalyst, enabling people to unfold their innate playful creativity. f the network and blockchain were to be the canvas, then the paints and colors would be the lines of code running transparently and censorlessly on top. veryone is invited to cocreate.nnhe genesis sale represents the net step in this epic journey that lies ahead, and a way to bootstrap the ethereum ecosystem. he collective intelligence of the swarm will then have its collective fingertips at an amazing open technology, capable of unleashing waves of innovation across the web, and etherweb. ith a technology like this available, centralized, corrupted monopolies that siphon from the blood and tears of humanity face rapid obsoletion.nnportal into greatnessnn"on't ask yourself what the world needs. sk yourself what makes you come alive and then go do that. ecause what the world needs is people who have come alive." oward hurmannnost of us are aware that the current planetary operating system is pushing us into etinction as a species. inance seems to be the current paradigm humanity has to transcend on its path from anncivilization type zeronninto anncivilization type onenn.nnhen a technology like ethereum eists,  feel like we almost have a debt to ourselves and our fellow species to eplore its potential in the search of solutions. e truly have at our fingertips the power to craft the future we desire through code and purposeful action - if you see something you don’t like, contribute with something you do like. e believe it is important, especially at this critical point in time, to follow our heart instead of meaningless etrinsic rewards. his is how, perhaps, we can open a portal toward our maimum potential, both on an individual and collective level.nn suspect that ir imothy erners-ee was most likely unable to envision something like itcoin running on top of his hyper tet unified network protocol back in early ’s. ust as we are unable at this point to fully grasp the implications of the ongoing crypto renaissance running across the ubiquitous digital mesh that connects more than  billion minds.nnow far can we take itnnhat's the limitnns there really a limit in the first placennrom our humble beginnings as foragers and hunters, we have arrived at a point where we are able to contemplate the nature of infinity. ble to grasp the idea that we’re made from trillions of atoms vibrating in unison on a pale blue dot, all this while permanently connected through a digital planetary consciousness grid. e are learning to dream with open minds, just as we are dreaming with closed eyes. e are on the cusp of changing the world with our minds through lines of code dancing with atoms at the edge of singularity. he interesting part is just about to begin.nnow many rivers will we have to cross before we'll find our way