Titre: ÐΞVcon-0 Recap\nAuteur: George Hallam\nDate: December 5, 2014\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/12/05/devcon-0-recap\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nay  - onday th ov - ÐΞ ission and rocessesnnhe first day of ÐΞcon- kicked off early at am with the thereum  communications team arriving at the venue (thereum ev ’s workspace in reuzberg, erlin) to set up the  high quality recording equipment and arrange the space for the event.nnfter a quick coffee and croissant/pain au chocolat, everyone was ready for the first presentation - “elcome! ur mission Ðpps” which was delivered by avin ood. avin made it very clear within this presentation the need for decentralised applications in today’s society with two very powerful opening quotes, “rogress has led to the concentration of power” and "ur mission therefore is decentralisation”. ollowing the presentation on Ðpps, avin invited everyone present to introduce themselves and eplain their roles in thereum. t was humbling to see how thereum has attracted such annmagnificent teamnnof incredibly talented people from such a wide variety of backgrounds.nnet up, tephan ual gave a talk highlighting the important role of the  based communications team in building a strong and populous thereum community. e also touched on the streamlining of internal communications procedures to maimise thereum's core team efficiency. ith  thereum meetup/hackathons taking place from ehran to ew ork and with over  members worldwide, the thereum community has grown eponentially over the past  months. till, there is always more to be done. ith the inclusion of  new members to the team, new educational tools on the horizon and increased interaction with the community, tephan hopes thereum can become a worldwide phenomenon as we move forward to the release of the genesis block.nntraight after tephan’s talk, ven hlert gave an insightful presentation on how crum and gile will be utilised to again maimise the efficiency of thereum’s software development.  his will be achieved by focusing on the key elements of the “product” that are needed for completion, and by applying incremental development goals with short deadlines for each of the individual developer teams (ist, ++, olidity etc). his will hopefully increase the overall output whilst breaking down what is a truly enormous project into manageable pieces.nninally to cap off the first day, le an de ande gave an update on ist, the thereum o client’s Ðpp avigator. s many of you will have seen in le’s recentnnist presentationnn, the Ðpp avigator will be an incredibly useful and powerful tool for people looking to interact with thereum and will really help make it accessible and easy to use by everyone from the outset - which is of course important for swift adoption.nnay  - uesday th ov - anguages, Ðapps & rchitecturennfter onday’s introduction and team updates, day  would focus strongly on the direction of thereum’s languages, Ðpp creation and architecture updates. avin ood and hristian eitwießner started off with a talk on the vision of the olidity language and the roadmap to its completion as it comes closer to a language that supports all features provided by the thereum irtual achine. ou can trynnsolidity in your browsernnnownn.nnhis was followed by a brief chat from avin this time focusing on the importance of secure documentation in Ðpp evelopment. he concept is to intertwine documentation and code in olidity so that the documentation can be used by the client to alert the user of any significant actions that may take place as a consequence of running the code in certain smart contracts.nnarek otewicz then gave an update on the avascript  in a workshop setting allowing a lot of to-and-fro with the audience. e eplained how it works, how to use it with smart contracts and what tools will be available to enable its use and uptake in the future.nnfter lunch, iotr ieliński presented on olem, a project that aims to use thereum to coordinate a  distributed computation network for research use. articipants of the network share their computing power and in return receive a token of worth, incentivising their continued participation. sers can also access the resources to implement their own tasks and distribute them across the network.nnollowing iotr, ven lert took the stage again to speak further on optimising thereum’s workflow using continuous integration.  is a concept intended to improve the quality of whichever project it is being used with. hough thereum already uses , we wish to further refine the process as we move forward. o this end, ven introduced several new and different implementations to make the developers lives easier as the project moves forward.nno finish off day , efteris arapetsas gave an interesting presentation about using macs for ++ thereum development. e highlighted several plugins to use in order to improve workflow as well as the plugin he's working on for synta highlighting on olidity for macs. t is very cool to see personal projects increasing thereum's team overall efficiency!nnay  - ednesday th ov - lient omparisons and hat is thereumnnednesday’s presentation and panel content offered a great opportunity to get the whole team on the same page from a client perspective. ith artin ecze arriving from an rancisco, we had representatives for each client ready for a panel talk later on in the day. he aim of panel was to increase the development team’s understanding of the different clients and highlight the minor differences between each client and how they implement the thereum irtual achine.nnhe morning commenced with inay upta leading a workshop which had everyone present trying to come up with a definitive answer to “hat is thereum”. t turns out it’s not as easy as we thought! ach person had a chance to stand up and offer their own personal  second definition on what thereum is. he answers were diverse, and it was interesting to see how people changed their angle of approach depending on which audience the eplanation was aimed at.nnollowing inay’s workshop, artin ecze brought everyone up to speed with node-ethereum - a ode.js project he has been working on with oseph how in alo lto. he talk started by outlining the ethereumjs-lib and node-etheruem's architecture, then focused on areas where the client differs in structure from the other ++, o and ython client implementations. eff ilcke also gave a brief update on thereum o client on the whiteboard before the panel discussion.nnhe presentation space was then rearranged for the panel with avin ood (thereum ++), eff ilcke (thereum o), eiko ees (ythereum) and artin ecze (ode-thereum). ach took turns outlining how each client handles state transactions, moves account balances, runs the  and saves data to accounts whilst handling sucides and out-of-gas eceptions. uestions where then posed by the audience, discussions continued on late into the night as day  drew to a close.nnay  - hursday th ov - obustness and securitynnhough it is eceptionally useful to have a large suite of tools available for developers and users wanting to interact with thereum, it means nothing if the security and robustness of the network are in anyway compromised. o this end, the thereum team is working very hard to audit the software with several eternal partners and ensure network stability from the release of the genesis block onwards.nno this end, ven hlert, utta teiner and eiko ees kicked off the morning with a workshop on the tress esting roject. he goal of the project is to again use continuous integration and take it one step further. ith , the ev team can test to make sure that each client will behave correctly when it eecutes a contract. n this respect it will simulate how clients would interact with the blockchain in the real world. his will allow us to understand how the network will behave if the clients have different properties. or instance - clients with low bandwidth and less cpu power interacting with those with more resources available. he project pays special attention to how this will affect potential forks of the blockchain. ater on, the team will simulate attacks on the thereum blockchain and network to test its durability and resilience.nnfter the workshop, hristoph enzsch presented on the why and how of unit testing in the thereum project. n his talk, hristoph described several different types of test that need to be carried out - unit tests, integration tests and system tests. e also eplained the different tools available to make it easy for every developer involved in thereum to get working on the huge amount of testing that needs to be carried out before it’s released.nnet, utta teiner took the stage to deliver a talk on “chieving ecurity”. he eplained how our approach to security is to initiate both an internal audit and a massive eternal audit with established software security firms, academics, blockchain research firms and companies interested in utilising thereum all taking part. utta is also working on a bounty program which will be open to the community rewarding those who test and eplore the protocol and software. e’ll be releasing more information on this shortly if you wish to take part.nnfter a quick lunch, le everington updated us on the vision and roadmap of the ibpp ulti  rotocol etwork ramework. he pp networking protocol is geared towards security as it is entirely encrypted from end to end. e contrasted the thereum network with the internet as we know it today, emphasising the difference between using  certificates and pp anonymous networks. e also commented on thereum’s  network protocols - hisper, warm and thereum itself. ll  protocols run on the same line, so framing/multipleing is being used to stop them from interfering with each others bandwidth needs.  key point to take away from this is that other Ðpps can potentially build their own protocols and use the multipleing to optimise the connection as well.nnavin followed up with a presentation on the what and why of hisper the ulti  essaging ystem with outing rivacy. onsensus is epensive, and for things like pure communications there are more elegant solutions available than using blockchain tech, hence the need for hisper. o understand hisper in general, think transactions, but without the eventual archival, any necessity of being bound to what is said or automated eecution & state change. e also talked about some specific use cases for hisper, such as Ðpps that need to provide dark (plausible denial over perfect network traffic analysis) comms to two correspondents that know nothing of each other but a hash. his could be a Ðpp for a whistleblower to communicate to a known journalist echange some small amount of verifiable material and arrange between themselves for some other protocol (warm, perhaps) to handle the bulk transfer.nno finish off the day, aniel agy bought us up to speed on warm, thereum’s decentralised file storage and transmission protocol specifically targeted toward static web content hosting. aniel also covered  (istributed ash able - ademlia). his will allow peers to connect to other peers distributed throughout the network instead of peer that are simply close to each other. y deterministically connecting to random peers, you know that each peer will have a better picture of the overall state of the network, increasing its viability.nnay  - riday th ov - lockchain heory and he uturennhe fifth and final day of con ! fter a week of talking about the near future of thereum’s development and completion, the last day would be focused on future iterations of thereum and blockchain technology as a whole.nnitalik uterin and lad amfir started off day five with a whiteboard presentation on thereum .. here are several problems that need to be solved as blockchain technology moves forward in the future - scalability and blockchain interoperability being at the forefront of those issues. he idea of thereum interacting with thousands of other blockchains is an attractive one, this in itself solves certain scalability problems in that work can distributed across many chains as opposed to bloating one central chain.nnavin then joined italik and together they talked about the thereum ight-lient.  light client protocol is especially important for thereum as it will allow it to run on low capacity environments such as mobile phones, o (nternet of hings) devices and browser etensions. he two eplained the development process and usage of atricia erkle rees to implement it. pect the light client to be ready for the release of thereum ..nnfter lunch, uan atiz-enet of ilecoin/ showed the audience the technology behind  and itswap. e also presented some thereum/ use cases such as content addressed files,  naming and high performance distributed filesystem and tool integration.nnavin once again took the stage to reveal i, the thereum . i is being developed in conjunction with lethzero and epected to be released in the net  to  months. t supports a rather amazing feature set, including documentation, compiler and debugger integration as you type, information on code health, valid invariant, code structure and code formatting, as well as variable values and assertion truth annotations.nninally, italik wrapped up the event with a presentation showing some ideas for thereum . (harding, ypercubes) and thanked all of those who attended.nnverall, ÐΞcon- was very enriching and worthwhile for everyone who attended. s epected, the th ev team is now  very much on the same page and ready to push forward to the release of the genesis block. ll of the presentations from con  were recorded and are currently being edited together by our resident graphic designer/video editor an eikle. tarting on the th, a steady stream of content - “he ÐΞcon- eries” will be added to thennthereum outube hannelnn.