Titre: Ethereum Builders: A Proposed Experiment\nAuteur: Mihai Alisie\nDate: March 20, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/03/20/ethereum-builders-experiment\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nello, fellow thereans.  amnnihai lisienn, one of thennthereum foundersnn, and for the past year ’ve served as the vice president of the thereum oundation and as director of thereum witzerland.nnn the early days of the project  concentrated my attention on the community side and worked on thennholons ideannfor a distributed physical infrastructure. or the past few months 've been contemplating what the net project step(s) should be and how we can create favorable conditions for a thriving community and ecosystem of smart contracts.nnn this post  will propose an eperiment for the thereum community – in a way, returning to the things  wanted to work on in the beginning of the project. he main idea behind this eperiment is the making of a self organizing knowledge sharing network with potential ramifications in a variety of other areas. e’ll eplore a few of the use cases towards the end of the article, but only in order to provide a starting point in this eploration -nnnotnnto bo it.nnopefully the proposed idea will get an interesting conversation sparked, and who knows, maybe even some cool projects in the near future )nnnjoy!nnhe thereum roject transmutation(s)nniberty, when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth.nn—eorge ashingtonnns does any successful idea, the thereum roject has metamorphosed many times and evolved into what it has become today. he growth happened in various ways while the available resources were channeled into strategic areas.nnn the beginning a big part of the focus was put into legal hacking and the creation of the required infrastructure to make the enesis ale happen. s we made our way through the legal bushes, getting to the point where we felt comfortable with the setup, the focus shifted towards the security and monitoring of the entire enesis ale operation.nnefore turning the enesis ale switch on, we had in-depth security audits and created an entire o protection strategy with multiple layers and courses of action. s we approached the end of the enesis ale, as epected, the focus shifted mainly towards the development of the platform.nnfter months of intense development, now the focus is shifting towards the immediate genesis launch, smoothing the rough edges and auditing the software in order to epose any security flaws that might have escaped us.nnoon, we will have thereum released and all attention will go towards monitoring how it behaves “in the wild”. ow the question is, what happensnnafternnit’s “out there” hat is the net phase of the project and what should we donnnownnto prepare for itnnhe education aspect is regarded by everyone in the project as etremely important in both the short term and long term, especially since one of the points of this platform is the creation of a rich ecosystem of s, s and other smart-contracts living on it.nnveryone agrees that in order to have a thriving ecosystem, we need to create favorable conditions for curious developers to play and eperiment with thereum. hat also means providing the right tools, resources and tutorials – in short, making it as easy as possible for interested people to learn, collaborate and share knowledge.nn proposed eperiment thereum uildersnn“n times of change, learners inherit the earth, while the learned find themselves beautifully equipped to deal with a world that no longer eists.”nn—ric offernnhile eploring the idea behind educational portals (i.e. ode cademy) and researching into the effectiveness of different approaches, nnstumbled upon a studynnon students taking online courses.nnccording to this study, the students in massive open online courses are apt to take a passive approach to learning, avoiding collaboration with others, seeking only passing grades, and therefore not retaining new knowledge. ven if in the beginning the students were motivated by acquiring new skills, as they progressed through the courses their focus shifted towards the grades and the completion of the course.nnollowing this rather disappointing result, the researchers suggested that when planning online courses, providers should develop engaging coursework thatnnrequiresnnimmediate peer interaction and use of new knowledgenn.nnhis led me to the thinking that for something as radically new as thereum, maybe looking for new approaches to education and collaboration could be key to unlocking the potential present in the already formed thereum community.nnfter eperimenting with a few approaches, the idea behind the thereum uilders project started taking shape.nns a project, it is formed from multiple components, but in this post  will focus only on the education area.nnn the current form, this is how things were thoughtnny combining screensharing, an open source upvoting interface and itcoin, we create a way for the thereum open source, knowledge-sharing economy to self-organize, self-sustain and distribute information towards the edges with maimum impact at virtually zero cost. pecial thanks goes tonnindannfrom ode uddies for hacking this together and tonnurel ancunnfor the invaluable help.nnecause of lack of a better option, oogle angouts with screensharing will be used as thenninteractive mediumnnfor the thereum sessions. he web interface is an open source upvoting system, in this case used as annpeer-to-peer self-organizing knowledge-sharing networknn. itcoin (and soon ) can serve as a tipping/donation mechanism for the course/hackathon organizers – tokens of appreciation for the invaluable shared knowledge. f the quality of the sessions is good, the screensharing hangouts could also be recorded and used for video tutorials and other educational content quite easily.nnor documentation and guides, itook seems like an interesting option. ith it you can pull content directly from wiki pages that live on different repos (i.e. ethereum wiki, cpp wiki, go wiki, etc.) and display it in a nice web  or ebook format. y pulling content from the wikis, whenever the documentation is updated the itook automatically updates as well. ll in all it looks to be a good fit for what we need at the moment, since the documentation evolves at such a rapid pace in thereum world.nnou can see the initial guide we hacked togethernnherenn.nns for badges and reputation, at the moment we will keep track of the organized sessions and community contributions in a spreadsheet. hen the thereum network goes live, we plan to transfer the contributions and reputation gained to the identity of user’s choice. his would then make it easier tonnet recognition for the things you learnnnet/give recognition for the things you teachnnerify skillsnnisplay and use your badges across the etherwebz (and not only)nngain, this just an eperiment and we’ll be playing with a few of these things in the coming weeks to see what works and what doesn’t. o please be patient if something doesn’t work as epected and report it bynnopening an issuenn.nnf received well by the community, thereum uilders could unfold in a number of waysnnultilingual thereum study/hacking sessions for localized learningnnurning it into a  (roof of oncept in the works)nnrowdfunding module(s) for projects, hackathons and workshopsnnthereum reputation system for the code whisperers, participants, builders, etc.nnsyncronous, self-organized global hackathons, breakathons and workshopsnnommunity ficationnn______________ insert here awesome idea(s)nnractals of knowledge-sharing and open collaborationnnou will only be remembered for two things the problems you solve and the ones you create.nn—ike urdocknnn the current form, ethereum.builders is an open-ended tool that enables the thereum community to coordinate, collaborate and share knowledge. he users will most likely discover new ways to use it on things that we haven't figured out yet.nnhat being said, 'd like to walk through a few use cases in order to provide a starting point in this journey.nnploring a few use casesnnonnecting thereum builders with each othernnhink ofnnwitchnn, but for thereum hacking. nstead of watching other people playing games, you can watch people create awesome things on thereum, and pick up new skills and knowledge along the way.nnrom learning how to install an ethereum client on your machine to making your first  and showcasing it there’s an entire variety of interactions that can be eplored.nnonnecting thereum builders with knowledge repositoriesnnrganize the information and make it easily accessible. urrently the thereum knowledge base is fragmented between various repo wikis, forums and blog posts. s an alternative to this madness,  propose itook as a tool for organizing information and making it accessible in web, pdf, mobi and epub format.nnecentralized hackathons & breakathonsnne've dreamt about organizing a distributed global hackathon for a while now. ow we have a way to do it. ot only can we organize it, but at the same time, thanks to the angouts n ir feature, we can broadcast the event live on ouube. f you're interested in participating or sponsoring an event like this, please get in touch.nnreakathons are at the other end of the spectrum instead of creating things, you try to break things. n our case we're talking about testing thereum and seeing if anyone can break it. nstead of being punished, the people able to break things will be rewarded, since thanks to their work thereum grows stronger. ou can think of it as a crowd security audit with prizes )nnecentralized co-working sessions the rise of adhocracynnesides organizing hackathons, the hangouts can also serve as global co-working space(s). ou can think of it like having a place where you can go and work on building cool things on thereum together with other people from all around the world. he energy builds up when working together.nnlockchain research sessions the academia connectionnnse the available channels to reach the minds interested in researching the possibilities and problems that blockchain technology has. ake it simple for these people to coordinate and echange ideas in a highly interactive format. he rest is up to them.nnthereum roject pdatesnnesides the blog this could serve as an interactive channel of communication with the community and the developers swarming around the project. hey’re not mutually eclusive tools but rather complementing each other.nnthereum meet-ups syncnnhysically - with meetups.com decision to start to charging meet up organizers depending on the size of the group, some have already started looking for a replacement.nnnline - y design you remove the bottlenecks as in having "" to organize a meetup call in a closed kype room with only a few select members. pen the gates and allow the communities and their members to interact, get to know each other and synchronize. hink of it as a meta layer that goes on top of physical meetups, allowing the local communities to become part of bigger communities (continental, worldwide, etc.).nnnd now to wrap all these ideas into one, here is how it currently looks likenn*ome of the above sessions are just eamples.nneedback and help welcomennor those who find this eperiment interesting, have a question or want to help, you can see it in action atnnethereum.buildersnnornnjoin us for a chatnnon itter. f you spot a bug or something that’s not working properlynnplease open an issuennand if you want to contribute code or create bounties for certain featuresnnplease drop by our reponn^_^nnhe eperiment is on!