Titre: Gav’s Ethereum ÐΞV Update V\nAuteur: Gavin Wood\nDate: March 2, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/03/02/gavs-ethereum-dev-update-v\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nwas woken by italik's call at  this morning pitch black outside, nighttime was still upon us. onetheless, it was time to leave and this week had best start on the right foot.nnhe -minute walk in darkness from the ug-based headquarters to the train station was wet. treetlights reflecting off the puddles on the clean wiss streets provided a picturesque, if quiet, march into town.  couldn't help but think the rain running down my face was a very liquid reminder of the impending seasonal change, and then, on consideration, how fast the last nine months had gone.nnolid oundationsnnhe last week was spent in ug by the thereum foundation board and ÐΞ leadership italik, ihai and aylor who officially form the founation's board, nthony and oseph as the other official advisors and eron & utta as the ÐΞ eecutive joined by eff and myself wearing multiple hats of ÐΞ and advisory). he chief outcome of this was the dissemination of italik's superb plan to reform the foundation and turn it into a professional entity. he board will be recruited from accomplished professionals with minimal conflicts of interest the present set of "founders" officially retired from those positions and a professional eecutive recruited, the latter process lead by oseph. nthony will take a greater ambassadorial role for thereum in hina and orth merica. onversely, ÐΞ will function much more as a department of the oundation's eecutive rather than a largely independent entity. inally,  presented the release strategy to the others an event after which 've never seen quite so many photos taken of a whiteboard. eedless to say, all was well received by the board and advisors. ore information will be coming soon.nns  write this, 'm sitting on a crowded early commuter train, inay upta in tow, who recently took on a much more substantive role this week as release coordinator. e'll be helping with release strategy and to keep you informed of our release process. his week, which might rather dramatically be described as 'pivotal' in the release process, will see eff, italk and me sit around a table and develop all the o- changes, related unit tests, and integrations in three days, joined by our indomitable aster of esting, hristoph. he outcome of this week will inform our announcement which will come later this week outlining in clear terms what we will be releasing and when.nn'm sorry it has been so long without an update. he last  months has been somewhat busy, choked up with travel and meetings, with the remaining time soaked up by coding, team-leading and management. he team is now substantially formed the formal security audit started four weeks ago the bounty programme is running smoothly. he latter processes are the eceedingly capable hands of utta and ustav. eron, meanwhile will be stepping down as the ÐΞ head of finance and operations and assuming the role he was initially brought aboard for, system modelling. e'll hopefully be able to announce his successors net week (yes, that was plural he has been doing the jobs of . people over the last few months).nne are also in the process of forming partnerships with third parties in the industry eorge, utta and myself managing this process 'm happy to announce that at least three echanges will be supporting ther from day one on their trading platforms (details of which we'll annouce soon), with more echanges to follow. arek and le are providing technical supprt there with arek going so far as to make a substantial reference echange implementation.nn also finished the first draft of , the thereum nter-echange lient ddress rotocol, an -compatible system for referencing and transacting to client accounts aimed to streamline the process of transfering funds, worry-free between echanges and, ultimately, make  and  pains a thing of the past. he  compatibility may even provide possibility of easy integration with eisting banking infrastructure in some future.nnevelopmentsnnroof-of-oncept releases  and  were released. atpec, "natural language specification format" and the basis of our transaction security was prototyped and integrated. nder arek's watch, now helped by abian, ethereum.js is truly coming of age with a near source-level compatibility with olidity on contract interaction and support for the typed  with calling and events, the latter providing hassle-free state-change reporting. i, our , underwent its first release and after some teethng issues is getting good use thanks to the ecellent work done by rkadiy and ann. olidity had numerous features added and is swiftly approaching . status with hristian, efteris and iana to thank. arian's work goes ever forward on the network monitoring system while ven and eiko have been working diligently on the stress testing infrastructure which analyses and tests the peer network formation and performance. hey'll soon be joined by le and efteris to accellerate this programme.nno one of the major things that needed sorting for the net release is the proof-of-work algorithm that we'll use. his had a number of requirements, two of which were actually pulling in opposite directions, but basically it had to be light-client-friendly algorithm whose speed-of-mining is proportional to the -bandwidth and which requires a considerable amount of  to do so. here was a vague consensus that we (well.. italik and atthew) head in the direction of a asimoto-like algorithm (a proof-of-work designed for the itcoin blockchain that aims to be -bound, meaning, roughly, that to make it go any faster, you'd need to add more memory rather than just sponsoring a smaller/faster ). ince our blockchain has a number of important differences with the itcoin blockchain (mainly in transaction density), stemming from the etremely short s block time we're aiming for, we would have to use not the blockchain data itself like ashimoto but rather an artifcially created dataset, done with an algorithm known as agger (yes, some will remember it as italik's first and flawed attempt at a memory-hard proof-of-work).nnhile this looked like a good direction to be going in, a swift audit of italik and att's initial algorithm by im ughes (e-irector of echnology at rontier evelopments and epert in low-level  and  operation and optimisation) showed major flaws. ith his help, they were able to work together to devise a substantially more watertight algorithm that, we are confident to say, should make the job of developing an / sufficiently difficult, especially given our determination to switch to a proof-of-stake system within the net - months.nnast, but not least, the new website was launched. udos to an and onstantin for mucking down and getting it done. et stop will be the developer site, which will be loosely based on the ecellent resource at qt.io, the aim to provide a one-stop etravaganza of up to date reference documentation, curated tutorials, eamples, recipes, downloads, issue tracking, and build status.nnnwardsnno, as le, our networking maestro might say, these are eciting times. hen deep in nitty gritty of development you sometimes forget quite how world-altering the technology you're creating is, which is probably just as well since the gravity of the matter at hand would be continually distracting. onetheless, when one starts considering the near-term alterations that we can really bring one realises that the wave of change is at once unavoidable and heading straight for you. or what it's worth,  find an ecellent accompaniment to this crazy life is the superb music of retty ights.