Titre: The Ethereum Launch Process\nAuteur: Vinay Gupta\nDate: March 3, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/03/03/ethereum-launch-process\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\n’mnninay uptann, the newly minted release coordinator for thereum. ’ve been working with the comms team on strategy, and have now come aboard to help smooth the release process (some of the content in this blog is out of date, please seennthis linknnfor the most up to date information on thereum).nn’ll be about / on comms and on release coordination.  lot of that is going to be about keeping you updated on progress new features, new documentation, and hopefully writing about great new services you can use, so it’s in the hinterland between comms and project management. n theory, once ’m up to speed,  should be providing you with the answers to the question “what’s going on” ut give me some time, because getting up to speed on all of this is nontrivial. e have a very large development team working with very advanced and often quite comple new technology, and keeping everybody up to date on that simultaneously is going to be tricky. o do that well,  have to actually understand what’s going on at quite a technical level first.  have a lot to wrap my head around.  was a  graphics programmer through the s, and have a reasonably strong grounding in financial cryptography ( was, and  am not ashamed to admit it, a cypherpunk in those days). ut we have a - person team working in parallel on several different aspects of thereum, so... patience please while  master the current state of play, so that  can communicate about what’s changing as we move forwards. t’s a lot of contet to acquire, as ’m sure you all know - if there’s an occasional gaffe as  get oriented, forgive me!nn’ve just come back from witzerland, where  got to meet a lot of the team, my “orientation week” being three days during the release planning meetings. avnnwrites in some detail about that week herenn, so rather than repeat av, read his post, and ’ll press on to tell you what was on that release white board.nnhere is good news, there is bad news, but above all, there is a release schedule.nnhere will be another blog post with much more detail about the release schedule for the first live thereum network shortly - likely by the end of this week, as the developer meeting that av mentions in his post winds up and the conclusions are communicated. hat’s the post which will give you timelines you can start firing up your mining rigs to, feature lists, and so on. ntil then, let me lay out roughly what the four major steps in the release process will look like and we can get into detail soon.nnet’s lay out where we are first thereum is a sprawling project with many teams in many countries implementing the same protocol in several different language versions so it can be integrated into the widest possible range of other systems/ecologies, and to provide long term resilience and future-proofing. n addition to that broad effort, there are several specific applications/toolchains to help people view, build and interact with thereum ist, i, lethzero and so on. tarting quite soon, and over the net few months, a series of these tools will be stood up as late alpha, beta, ready for general use and shipped. ecause the network is valuable, and the network is only as secure as the software we provide, this is going to be a security-led not schedule-led process. ou want it done right, we want it done right, and this is one of the most revolutionary software projects ever shipped.nnhile you’re waiting for the all singing, all dancingnn httpdnn+nn osaicnncombo, the “we have just launched the uture of the nternet” breakthrough system, we will be actually be releasing the code and the tools in layers. e are standing up the infrastructure for a whole new web a piece at a time server first, plus tool chain, and then the full user eperience rich client. his makes sense a client needs something to connect to, so the server infrastructure has to come first. n internet based on this metacomputer model is going to be a very different place, and getting a good interface to that is going to present a whole new set of challenges. here’s no way to simply put all the pieces together and hope it clips into place like forming an arch by throwing bricks in the air we need scaffolding, and precise fit. e get that by concentrating on the underlying technical aspects for a while, including mining, the underlying network and so on, and then as that is widely deployed, stable and trusted, we will be moving up the stack towards the graphical user interface via ist in the net few months. one of these pieces stand alone, either the network needs miners and echanges, and it takes people time to get organized to do that work properly. he ist client needs applications, or it’s a bare browser with nothing to connect to, and it takes people time to write those applications. ach change, each step forwards, involves a lot of conversations and support as we get people set up with the new software and help them get their projects off the ground the whole thing together is an ecology. ach piece needs its own time, its own attention. e have to do this in phases for all of these reasons, and more.nnt took bitcoin, a much less comple project, several years to cover that terrain we have a larger team, but a more comple project. n the other hand, if you’re following the github repositories, you can see how much progress is being made, week by week, day by day, so... verify for yourself where we are.nno, now we’ve all got on the same page on real world software engineering, let’s actually look at phases of this release process!nnelease tep ne rontiernnrontier takes a model familiar to itcoiners, and stands it up for our initial release. rontier is the thereum network in its barest form an interface to mine ther, and a way to upload and eecute contracts. he main use of rontier on the launch trajectory is to get mining operations and ther echanges running, so the community can get their mining rigs started, and to start to establish a “live” environment where people can test pps and acquire ther to upload their own software into thereum.nnhis is “no user interface to speak of” command line country, and you will be epected to be quite epert in the whole thereum world model, as well as to have substantial mastery of the tools at your disposal.nnowever, this is not a test net this is annfrontiernnrelease. f you are equipped, come along! o notnndie of dysenterynnon the way.nnrontier showcases three areas of real utilitynnyou can mine real ther, at % of the normal ther issuance rate, . ther per block reward, which can be spent to run programs or echange for other things, as normal - this real thernn(his was not the case at launch - rontier block reward is  ther per block, and will remain that amount until asper).nnyou can echange ther for itcoin, or with other users, if you need ther to run code etc.nnif you already bought ther during the crowd sale, and you are fully conversant with the frontier environment, you can use it on the frontier network.nnwe do not recommend this, but have a very substantial security-and-recovery process in place to make it safer - see belownne will migrate from rontier to omestead once rontier is fully stable in the eyes of the core devs and the auditorsnnwhen we are ready to move to omestead, the release after rontier, the rontier network will be shut down ther values in wallets will be transferred, but state in contracts is will likely be erased (more information to follow on this in later blog posts)nnswitchover to  the new network will be enforced by “heomb”nnhis is very early release software feature complete within these boundaries, but with a substantial risk of unepected behaviours unseen in either the test net or the security review. nd it’s not just us that will be putting new code into production contracts, echanges, miners, everybody else in the ecosystem will be shipping new services. ny one of those components getting seriously screwed up could impact a lot of users, and we want to shake bugs out of the ecosystem as a whole, not simply our own infrastructure we are all in this together.nnowever, to help you safeguard your ther, we have the following mechanisms planned (more details from the developers will follow soon as the security model is finalised)nnif you do not perform any transactions, we guarantee % your ther will not be touched and will be waiting for you once we move beyond rontiernnif you perform transactions, we guarantee % that any ther you did not spend will will be available to you once we move beyond rontier not be touchednnther you spend will not fall through cracks into other people’s pockets or vanish without a trace in the unlikely event that this happens, you have  hours to inform us, and we will freeze the network, return to the last good state, and start again with the bug patchednnyes, this implies a real risk of network instability everything possible has been done to prevent this, but this is a brand new aeroplane -nntake your parachute!nnwe will periodically checkpoint the network to show that neither user report nor automated testing has reported any problems. e epect the checkpoints will be around once daily, with a mean of around  hours of latencynnechanges etc. will be strongly encouraged to wait for checkpoints to be validated before sending out payments in fiat or bitcoin. thereum will provide eplicit support to aid echanges in determining what ther transactions have fully clearednnver the course of the net few weeks several pieces of software have to be integrated to maintain this basket of security features so we can allow genesis block ther on to this platform without unacceptable risks. uilding that infrastructure is a new process, and while it looks like a safe, sane and conservative schedule, there is always a chance of a delay as the unknown unknown is discovered either by us, the bug bounty hunters or by the security auditors. here will be a post shortly which goes through this release plan in real technical detail, and ’ll have a lot of direct input from the devs on that post, so for now take this with a pinch of salt and we will have hard details and epected dates as soon as possible.nnelease tep wo omesteadnnomestead is where we move after rontier. e epect the following three major changes.nnther mining will be at % rather than % of the usual reward ratenn(rontier/omestead block reward will remain  ther)nncheckpointing and manual network halts should never be necessary, although it is likely that checkpointing will continue if there is a general demand for itnnwe will remove the severe risk warning from putting your ther on the network, although we will not consider the software to be out of beta until etropolisnntill command line, so much the same feature set as rontier, but this one we tell you is ready to go, within the relevant parameters.nnow long will there be between rontier and omestead epends entirely on how rontier performs best case is not less than a month. e will have a pretty good idea of whether things are going smoothly or not from network review, so we will keep you in the loop through this process.nnelease tep hree etropolisnnetropolis is when we finally officially release a relatively full-featured user interface for non-technical users of thereum, and throw the doors open ist launches, and we epect this launch to include a pp store and several anchor tenant projects with full-featured, well-designed programs to showcase the full power of the network. his is what we are all waiting for, and working towards.nnn practice,  suspect there will be at least one, and probably two as-yet-unnamed steps between omestead and etropolis ’m open to suggestions for names (write to vinayat]ethdev.com). eatures will be sensible checkpoints on the way specific feature sets inside of ist would be my guess, but ’m still getting my head around that, so  epect we will cross those bridges after omestead is stood up.nnelease tep our erenitynnhere’s just one thing left to discuss mining. roof of ork implies the inefficient conversion of electricity into heat, ther and network stability, and we would quite like to not warm the atmosphere with our software more than is absolutely necessary. hort of buying carbon offsets for every unit of ther mined (is that such a bad idea), we need an algorithmic fi the infamous roof of take.nnwitching the network from roof of ork to roof of take is going to require a substantial switch, a transition process potentially much like the one between rontier and omestead. imilar rollback measures may be required, although in all probability more sophisticated mechanisms will be deployed (e.g. running both mechanisms together, with roof of ork dominant, and flagging any cases where roof of take gives a different output.)nnhis seems a long way out, but it’s not as far away as all that the work is ongoing.nnroof of ork is a brutal waste of computing power - like democracy*, the worst system ecept all the others (*voluntarism etc. have yet to be tried at scale). reed from that constraint, the network should be faster, more efficient, easier for newcomers to get into, and more resistant to cartelization of mining capacity etc. his is probably going to be almost as big a step forwards as putting smart contracts into a block chain in the first place, by the time all is said and done. t is a ways out. t will be worth it.nnimelinesnns you have seen since the ther ale, progress has been rapid and stable. ode on the critical path is getting written, teams are effective and efficient, and over-all the organization is getting things done. einventing the digital age is not easy, but somebody has to do it. ight now that is us.nne anticipate roughly one major announcement a month for the net few months, and then a delay while etropolis is prepared. here will also be con ne, an opportunity to come, learn the practical business of building and shipping pps, meet fellow developers, potential investors, and understand the likely shape of things to come.nne will give you information about each release in more detail as each release approaches, but  want to give you the big overview of how this works and where we are going, fill in some of the gaps, highlight what is changing, both technically and in our communications and business partnership, and present you with an overview of what the summer is going to be like as we move down the path towards erenity, another world changing technology.nn’m very glad to be part of this process. ’m a little at sea right now trying to wrap my head around the sheer scope of the project, and ’m hoping to actually visit a lot of the development teams over the summer to get the stories and put faces to names. his is a big, diverse project and, beyond the project itself, the launch of a new sociotechnical ecosystem. e are, after all, a platform effort what’s really going to turn this into magic is you, and the things you build on top of the tools we’re all working so hard to ship. e are making tools for tool-makers.nninay signing off for now. ore news soon!