Titre: Ethereum in practice part 2: how to build a better democracy in under a 100 lines of code\nAuteur: Alex Van de Sande\nDate: December 4, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/12/04/ethereum-in-practice-part-2-how-to-build-a-better-democracy-in-under-a-100-lines-of-code\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhis is a second post on a series on how to use the current thereum tools to build smart contracts without needing programming eperience.nnownload the latest version of the thereum alletnn,nnread the first partnnand let's have fun!nnreating a token is funnn, but what is the value of a token that doesn't do anything new e are now going to create a new contract that uses the tokens we just created. he contract will be a emocratic organization that lives on the blockchain and that anyone holding a share token will be able to vote on proposals.nno let's go back to "nnontractsnn" and then "nneploy ontractnn" and paste thenn source codennon thenn"olidity ource"nnfield. hoose the contract "emocracy" on the icker and then select these parametersnnn thennamountnnfield you can add any ether amount you want your  to start with. ince you can send ether to it at any time in the future, if this is the first time you've been doing this then keep the amount at  and send the money later.nnn thennsharesddressnnfield, paste the address of the token contract you just created. ay attention to the icon and color of the little circle that appears by the side of the address. f it doesn’t match eactly the one for the contract you created previously, then there's an error.nnnnnminimumharesorotingnnpick what is the minimum quorum of shareholders that need to vote on an issue before it passes. ere you must put the integer number of the minimum token possible, so if you created a token with  decimal places, putting  here will mean that in order for a proposal to be eecuted then the number of votes must be more than % of the total shares of the company.nnminutesorebatingnnthis is the minimum time a proposal must be discussed and voted on before the results can be tallied up. ut a small number like  minutes if you want just to create something for testing, but put something like , if you want to store large amounts of ether, so all proposals must stay there for at least two weeks.nnour contract should be looking something like thisnnfter a few seconds you'll be redirected to a the dashboard where you'll see your new contract being creatednnou can also see the link to the new contract on the "ontracts" tab. f it's not there (for eample if you are adding a contract that you didn't create) then you'll have to add it manually. o add that you'll need the contract's address and it's  interface, a string of tet that eplains to the wallet how to interact with the code. ou can pick any name you want and press .nnlick your new contract bo and you'll see a contract page. f you haven't already deposited some ether on that contract, click on deposit and put some small amount of ether so you can test how this particular democracy works. f the contract already has some funds, click the "show contract info" button.nnn thenn"read from contract"nnyou can see all the functions you can eecute for free on the contract, as they are just reading information from the blockchain. ere you can see, for instance, that the "sharesokenddress" is indeed the correct address or that there are currently  proposals on the contract. et's change that.nnn thenn"rite to contract"nnyou have a list of all the functions that will attempt to do some computation that saves data to the blockchain, and therefore will cost ether. elect "newroposal" and it will show all the options options for that function.nnor "beneficiary" add the address of someone you want to send ether to, then put how many ethers you want on the "ethermount" (must be an integer) and finally some tet describing the reason you want to do this. eave transactionyteode blank for now. lick eecute and type your password. fter a few seconds the numroposals will increase to  and the first proposal, number , will appear on the left column. s you add more proposals, you can see any of them by simply putting the proposal number on the "proposals" field and you can read all about it.nnoting on a proposal is also very simple. hoose "vote" on the function picker. ype the proposal umber on the first bo and check the "es" bo if you agree with it (or leave it blank to vote against it). lick "nneecutenn" to send your vote.nnhen the minimum voting time has passed, you can selectnn"eecuteroposal"nn. f the proposal was simply sending ether, then you can also leave the "nntransactionytecodenn" field blank. fter pressing "eecute" but before typing your password, pay attention to the screen that appears. f there is a warning on the "estimated fee consumption" field, then this means that for some reason the function called will not eecute and will be abruptly terminated. t can mean many things, but in the contet of this contract this warning will show up whenever you try to eecute a contract before its deadline has passed, or if the user is trying to send a different bytecode data than the original proposal had. or security reasons if any of these things happens, the contract eecution is abruptly terminated and the user that attempted the illegal transaction will lose the all the ether he sent to pay transaction fees.nnf everything went well you should be able to see the results of the vote in a few seconds. he "nnopenootenn" parameter on the first bo will turn to false while thennproposalassednnwill reflect if the proposal has been accepted or not. ou should also be able to see that the ther balance of the contract will go down and the equivalent ether will be sent to the beneficiary of the ether you wanted to send.nnow take a moment to let that in you just created an organization that only eists on the blockchain, that obeys votes based on completely digital tokens, but yet it can move real value around and create a very real impact on the world. lso notice that the organization is not under your control anymore it will eecute only the eact code you used to create it, forever. ou can't bribe it, you can't earmark it and the same rules apply either you are moving . or ,, ethers.nnan it get any better than this ctually, it can.nnn our net post we will eplore how you can use "transactionytecode" to allow the  to eecute any kind of ethereum transactionnn, even owning or creating other contracts. e'll also modify the token code to allow the  to control the amount of a token that eists on circulation and how to send it forward.