Titre: Frontier is coming - what to expect, and how to prepare\nAuteur: Stephan Tual\nDate: July 22, 2015\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/07/22/frontier-is-coming-what-to-expect-and-how-to-prepare\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\ne are only days away from launching 'rontier', the first milestone in the release of the thereum project. rontier will be followed by 'omestead', 'etropolis' and 'erenity' throughout the coming year, each adding new features and improving the user friendliness and security of the platform.nnhat is rontiernnrontier is a live, but barebone implementation of the thereum project. t's intended for technical users, specifically developers. uring the rontier release, we epect early adopters and application developers to establish communities and start forming a live ecosystem. ike their counterparts during the merican rontier, these settlers will be presented with vast opportunities, but will also face many dangers. f building from source and command lines interfaces aren't your cup of tea, we strongly encourage you to wait for a more user-friendly release of the thereum software before diving in.nnhen is rontier going livennrontier is now feature complete and its codebase has been frozen for two weeks. s a team we are currently reviewing the final steps for the release, not all of them technical. here will be no countdown - thereum is not something that's centrally 'launched', but instead emerges from consensus. sers will have to voluntarily download and run a specific version of the software, then generate and load the enesis block to join the official project's network. etails on this process will be released soon.nnhat can we epect in rontiernnnitial 'hawing' as limits during the first few daysnnhe first software release of rontier will have a hardcoded as limit per block of , as. nlike the normal as per block parameter, this special limit will not grow proportionally to the network usage - effectively preventing transacting during the first few days. his 'thawing' period will enable miners to start their operations and early adopters to install their clients without having to 'rush'. fter a few days (likely -, but this could change), we'll release a small software update which all clients will have to install. his update will see the as limit per block raised to  million, an initial number from which it will epand or contract as per the default miner settings.nnugs, ssues and omplicationsnne're very happy with how the 'lympic' testing phase of the thereum estnet took shape. hat said, the work on the rontier software is far from over. pect weekly updates which will give you access to better, more stable clients. any of the planned rontier gotchas (which included a chain reset at omestead, limiting mining rewards to %, and centralized checkpointing) were deemed unnecessary. owever, there are still big differences between rontier and omestead. n rontier, we're going to have issues, we're going to have updates, and there will be bugs - users are taking their chances when using the software. here will be big () warning messages before developers are able to even install it. n rontier, documentation is limited, and the tools provided require advanced technical skills.nnhe anary ontractsnnhe anary contracts are simple switches holding a value equal to  or . ach contract is controlled by a different member of the th/ev team and will be updated to ‘’ if the internal rontier isaster ecovery eam flags up a consensus issue, such as a fork.nnithin each rontier client, a check is made after each block against  contracts. f two out of four of these contracts have a value switched from  to , mining stops and a message urging the user to update their client is displayed. his is to prevent "fire and forget" miners from preventing a chain upgrade.nnhis process is centralized and will only run for the duration of rontier. t helps preventing the risk of a prolonged period (h+) of outage.nntats, tatus and adblock websitesnnou probably are already familiar with our network stats monitor,nnhttps//stats.ethdev.com/nn. t gives a quick overview of the health of the network, block resolution time and as statistics. f you’d like to eplore it further, ’ve made annbrief videonneplaining the various s. emember that participation in the stats page is voluntary, and nodes have tonnadd themselvesnnbefore they appear on the panel.nnn addition to the stats page, we will have a status page atnnhttps//status.ethdev.com/nn(no link as the site is not live yet) which will gives a concise overview of any issue that might be affecting rontier. se it as your first port of call if you think something might not be right.nninally, if any of the clients receive an invalid block, they will refuse to process it send it to the bad block website ( ‘entinel’). his could mean a bug, or something more serious, such as a fork. ither way, this process will alert our developers to potential issues on the network. he website itself is public and available atnnhttps//badblocks.ethdev.comnn(currently operating on the testnet).nn lean estnetnnuring the last couple of months, the thereum test network was pushed to its limits in order to test scalability and block propagation times. s part of this test we encouraged users to spam the network with transactions, contract creation code and call to contracts, at times reaching over  transactions per second. his has led the test network chain to grow to a rather unwieldy size, making it difficult for new users to catch up. or this reason, and shortly after the rontier release, there will be a new test network following the same rules as rontier.nnlympic rewards distributionnnuring the lympic phase there were a number of rewards for various achievements including mining prowess.  large number of you participated and earned rewards - a special mention goes to hitr, ino and amuel avery for their help during the stress tests. ote that rewards will not be part of the rontier enesis block, but instead will be handed out by a oundation bot during the weeks following the release.nnow do  get started with rontiernnhe oolsnnrontier and all its dependencies will be made available as a single line installer on our website atnnhttps//www.ethereum.org/nn.  single line installer will be provided for , inu and indows. f course, more advanced users will still be able to install everythingnnfrom sourcenn, or use a binary build from ournnautomated build botsnn.nnnce rontier has been installed on their machines, users will need to generate the enesis block themselves, then load it into their rontier clients.  script and instructions on how to do this will be provided as part of the new thereum website, as well as our various wikis.nne’re often asked how eisting users will switch from the test network to the live network it will be done through a switch at the geth console (nn--networkdnn). y default the new build will aim to connect to the live network, to switch back to the test network you’ll simply indicate a network id of ‘’.nnhe ocumentationnno get started with thereum, the best place is our officialnngitbook.nnfter consulting the gitbook, you can dig into the officialnnolidity tutorial.nnor more in-depth information, please consult thennmain wikinn,nngo client wikinnandnnc++ client wikinn. inally, if it's mining you'd like to learn more about, annmining  and guidennare regularly updated on our forums.nnetting elpnnthereum is an open source software project and as such, all help is provided through the community channels. f you face issues, the first port of call should be ournnforumsnn, followed by ournnthereum chatnnchannels. f you're on the other hand are eperiencing problems specific to your ther ale wallet, such as not being able to load your pre sale purchase, thennhelpdesk addressnnwill continue operating throughout rontier (and probably beyond).nnnd of course, you can also find help locally at one of ournn meetupsnnaround the world - if your city isn’t listed, we encourage you tonncreate onenn.