Titre: Ethereum Foundation Spring 2019 Update\nAuteur: Ethereum Foundation Team\nDate: Team on May 21, 2019\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2019/05/21/ethereum-foundation-spring-2019-update\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\n. ntroductionnnthereum ommunity,nnthereum’s future is bright. ver the last  months the thereum community — a global collection of developers, entrepreneurs, researchers, and passionate users — has made tremendous progress. very week, new applications built on thereum launch to mainnet, scalability solutions come online, and  . moves closer to key milestones. thereum remains the de-facto platform for decentralized applications, and is used every day to secure billions of dollars in digital assets.nnhe thereum oundation’s team is thrilled to see the progress happening across the community. e have worked to support the ecosystem since thereum’s earliest days as a non-profit dedicated only to doing what is best for thereum.nns the ecosystem has matured, the thereum oundation has refined its focus. “oing what is best for thereum” doesn’t mean trying to do everything — it means focusing on where we can add the most value, and leaving space for others to add value in the areas that they will be the most effective.nno what is the thereum oundation’s role todaynnhe thereum oundation is a resource allocator, a voice in the ecosystem, and an advocate for thereum to the world.nnesource llocatornnoday, the oundation holds approimately .% of all , as well as reserves held in cash. hese resources are intended to decrease over time, as they are invested in critical work across the ecosystem. hese are significant amounts of capital but they are not infinite. t is our responsibility to ensure that every last dollar and wei is spent effectively.nne are also working to grow the thereum ecosystem’s funding base. his means encouraging other organizations besides the oundation to support high-priority projects, and supporting innovative mechanisms for funding, including itcoin grants and oloch. fforts like these give us better leverage from our eisting resources, and help build a sustainable path for funding vital projects far into the future.nn voice in the ecosystemnne understand that many look to the oundation as a valued voice even as we move to proactively empower others. hat voice is a resource that can be used effectively to advance thereum. e are able to, for instance, bring attention to important but relatively unknown projects, share valuable information about thereum’s progress with the public, and encourage the growth of regional thereum communities.nnoving forward, epect the thereum oundation to be a more active voice in the thereum community.nnn advocate for thereum to the worldnno the outside world, thereum can be confusing — and that’s probably an understatement. any newcomers don’t understand our vibrant and decentralized ecosystem because they’ve never seen anything like it before.nnhen someone (a major company, a government or a regular person) finds their way into our world, the thereum oundation is often their first stop. he first thing we tend eplain is that the thereum ecosystem is distributed and not owned or operated by any foundation or organization. ur oundation helps to represent thereum to the outside world as an effective portal that people can pass through to the ecosystem itself.nne also recognize a need to take more initiative in growing the thereum ecosystem, on-boarding developers and improving the developer eperience. s discussed in more detail below, we intend to deploy significant resources towards these goals.nn. ur hilosophynnthereum is not a typical open-source project, and the oundation is not a typical organization. uccessfully fostering a vibrant decentralized thereum ecosystem requires a specialized approach.nnven as we deploy significant resources across the ecosystem to improve thereum, we must do so in a way that maintains the core spirit of decentralization. e have deliberately adopted a philosophy ofnnsubtractionnn, which informs everything that we do.nnn plain language, following a philosophy of subtraction means resisting the natural tendency of organizations to grow and accumulate valuennwithinnnthemselves, and ensure instead that this value is creatednnoutsidennthe oundation in the broader thereum ecosystem.nnnstead of capturing opportunities for ourselves, we distribute those opportunities to the community. nstead of pulling everything in-house, we push our resources out to teams across the ecosystem. e don’t compete with the ecosystem — we are thrilled when other organizations create value, because that means thereum is becoming more decentralized and sustainable.nnhe thereum oundation succeeds ifnnthereumnnsucceeds, and thereum succeeds with a strong decentralized community. hat understanding governs how we work.nn. ighlights from thereum oundation-supported teamsnnhe last  months have been a crucial period for thereum, and we have worked etremely hard to support teams across the ecosystem. ncompassing all the progress made by teams supported by the  in this letter is impossible, but here is a selected samplenn . client teamsnn . is a name given to a set of transformative upgrades for the thereum protocol. ast year, this effort moved from a research project to an engineering effort. lient teams supported by the oundation including imbus, rysm, igma rime, and ubstrate hasper are among those working to turn  . into a reality.nnver the last few months thennimbusnn,nnrysmnn, andnnigma rime’snnighthouse testnets have launched. hese teams and others are now stabilizing and optimizing their clients, getting ready for multi-client testnets.nnany resources are shifting into testing, fuzzing, and audits over the coming months. e engagednnuntime erificationnnto formally verify thenndeposit contractnnand to formally specify the eacon hain. his is in addition to considerable effort by the research, development, and security teams involved in  . toward reliability and security.nnnn.nnhe  . initiative, which started last year, focuses on improving thereum’s short term scalability and sustainability with an eye to easing the transition to  .. fforts we’ve funded include leey khunov’s research into stateless clients and state fees, and ndrew shikhmin’s research intonnsync protocol improvementsnn.nnork continues on essential projects like eth and olidity as well, and regular updates from all supported teams are on the way.nn-rollupnn-rollup uses succinct zero-knowledge proofs to enable thereum to reach hundreds of transactions per second. e’ve supported arry hitehat and atter abs’ collaboration, which has led the way on research, development, andnnimplementationnn.nnlobalnnlobal hosts thereum hackathons around the world, focused on on-boarding new developers into the ecosystem and facilitating project and company creation. t a recent event, apeown, % of attendees were from outh frica and % of attendees were new to thereum.nnthereumnncademicnnand esearch ollaborationnnhe thereum oundation hosted three research workshops at tanford and , through which dozens of talented mathematicians, computer scientists, and economists were introduced to research problems originating in thereum. any have continued working on these problems, leading to progress in areas essential to the future of thereum including asper , s, lasma constructions, succinct zero knowledge proof based systems, liveness, and safety bounds for thereum . among others.nndditionally, thennryptophagenncollaboration between the thereum oundation, upranational, and rotocol abs produced a solution to renowned cryptographer on ivest’snn time capsule crypto-puzzlennthat required only two months, as opposed to the projected  years.nnorking with prominent organizations tonnencouragenntheir engagement with the thereum ecosystemnnn our role as an advocate for thereum to the outside world, the oundation has worked to encourage high profile organizations to engage with thereum in ways that strengthen the whole ecosystem.nnotably, we have been working closely with icrosoft in a long-term commitment to support the thereum developer eperience through isual tudio ode and the new zure lockchain ervice.nne have also connected with large entities like  and pera, encouraging them to engage with the thereum community and support thereum-based applications, and with non-corporate organizations like  to help find ways to use thereum for social good.nnhere’s annlotnnmore being done by oundation-supported teams than just the eamples listed above. tay tuned for more updates coming from these teams in the net few weeks.nn. llocating esources over the net  months.nnn ecosystem-level view fornnthereumnnsupportnnoday, we’re ecited to share more information about the oundation’s priorities for the net year, and how we epect to allocate resources across the ecosystem.nns we’ve learned and iterated, we’ve made necessary changes to our processes and priorities. hen the thereum ecosystem was much smaller, it made sense for the oundation to prioritize several “in-house” teams to work on the most fundamental projects. s the community grew, we began a rants program that enabled us to support more teams throughout the ecosystem.nnoday, it shouldn’t matter to the oundation whether a project is “internal” or “eternal”. hat matters is that we’re spending resources effectively, and that thereum’s goals are accomplished. his is why we are moving toward an “ecosystem level view” when allocating resources by looking at the whole picture rather than at a subset of it.nnver the net yearnn, the thereum oundation plans to spend $ million  onnnkey projects across the ecosystemnn. his budget is insulated against downward  price movement.nne believe that this is a critical time for thereum, justifying significant investments in important work across the ecosystem.nnllocating across such a large and vibrant ecosystem is a substantial optimization challenge. e are constantly re-evaluating and optimizing our decisions, and new opportunities for leverage appear every day.nno help clarify how we define our highest priorities, we describe below three primary categories of resource allocationnn(i)nnuilding the thereum of tomorrow,nn(ii)nnupporting the thereum ofnntoday,nnandnn(iii)nneveloper rowth & wareness.nni. uilding the thereum of tomorrownn$ million earmarked over net  monthsnnthereum remains a highly ambitious technical project, and significant resources are required to fund the & that will realize the thereum community’s ambitions. ritical work is underway across the ecosystem on active engineering projects like  ., and on more long-term investments like growing the academic community’s involvement in thereum technology.nnhis includesnn . lient teams, esearch, , documentation and communicationnnayer  tate channels & lasmannontinuing work on ennmart contract languagesnnormal verification, auditing, and specification worknnero-knowledge &, including oratesnnthereum “hase  and eyond” &nnorking directly with academic institutions and attracting eceptional research talentnnii. upporting the thereum of todaynn$ million earmarked over net  months.nnthereum is used in production today to secure billions of dollars of assets and as a base layer for many hundreds of live applications. e believe that it is vital to continue supporting these efforts to ensure that “thereum .” continues to be the world’s dominant smart-contract platform.nnhis includesnnany initiatives under the banner of “ .”nnethnnoliditynneb.js and thers.jsnniii. eveloper rowth & warenessnn$nnmillion earmarked over net  monthsnnevelopers, developers, developers.nnthereum is a platform and the developers who build on it are a key part of our future. t is critical to invest in developer relations, education, and on-boarding today in order to grow the thereum community and to ensure our continued success. his is especially important in sia, where significant opportunity eists for thereum to grow.nnhis figure also includes more traditional efforts to grow awareness of thereum, through marketing efforts at both technical audiences and at users of thereum-based applications.nnhis includesnneveloper education & on-boardingnnupporting community event organizations focused on developers, like lobalnnontinuing to run evcon as a yearly gathering for the thereum ecosystemnnupporting regional thereum community organizationsnneveloper eperience improvements and developer toolingnnttracting eceptional developer talentnnncouraging browsers and other mass consumer technologies to seamlessly integrate thereum into their user eperiencesnnontinued improvements to ethereum.orgnn. hank you!nnthereum’s progress over the last  months is worth celebrating, and as we look ahead we’re more ecited than ever before.nnverything we describe above, every technical improvement, event and initiative was accomplished by one of you. his may be a letternnfromnnthe thereum oundation, but it’s a letternnaboutnnthe thereum community. hether you are new to all of this or you’ve been around since enesis, thank you for all of your support and contributions. e are ecited to keep building the thereum ecosystem together.