Titre: Devcon: Hacia Colombia en 2021\nAuteur: Devcon Team\nDate: Team on May 28, 2020\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/05/28/devcon-hacia-colombia-en-2021\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nueridos migos,nnn our most recent update, we outlined what evcon is all about and spoke to our renewed focus on growing the thereum ecosystem. art of that focus is on making sure that, for all types of attendees, the net evcon is all that we dream for it to be and more. or details on those goals and beyond,nnplease read the full post herenn! oday, we're going to tackle our site-selection and timing, along with more on what's ahead for this year and beyond.nn🥁 ur election 🥁nnetting right to it, we're ecited and proud to announce that the net edition of evcon will take place in ogotá, olombia at the beautiful gora ogotá onvention enter in !nnhe itynne can’t wait for the entire ecosystem to meet ogotá the capital city of olombia and one of outh merica’s most lively and popular cities. ull of culture, art, history, flavors, opportunities, and unique eperiences, ogotá is the ideal city to host evcon and our entire community!nnn olombia, you’ll find a consistent and comfortable climate year-round, and diverse destinations that cater to all tastes mountains, rivers, and stunning cities like edellín, ali, artagena and of course ogotá. t’s a rare find, and a country with a stable economy and rhythm running through its veins.nnhe enuennh, and the venue gora ogotá is a newly constructed and state-of-the-art center that we hope will be,nnby farnn, the best venue to ever host evcon. ocated just minutes from both ogotá's l orado nternational irport and from the historic anta e and andelaria neighborhoods of olombia's capital city, gora presented us with an ideally-located and fully modern conference center that is built to handle the catering, ii, meeting-space and other needs of an event like evcon.nnhe rocessnnhe thereum ecosystem's preference clearly aligned around a strong demand for an event in outh merica, and a very deserving request for a venue capable of welcoming and serving this large and growing gathering.nnhe evcon  venue search began prior to evcon  with an understanding that more time would lead to a smoother eperience for all attendees. fter both listening to community feedback and etensively reviewing options and many factors in over  cities, we're confident that in ogotá we’ve found both a region and venue capable of accomplishing every goal laid out for this year's evcon. oreover, we've found serious potential to grow a significant community presence.nn⏱ hen, when, and what 'til then ⏱nno here’s the plannn. oing it rightnnhis year has been trying for us all, and we’re as eager as many of you are to reunite, but we must also ensure that the event is done right by everyone in this community.nnhat means going bigger, and of course better than ever. e put in time to make sure that we could come together and grow our global ecosystem and that of a region that’s new to much of the thereum community, and that's what we're going to do.nnimply put, evcon participation should neither be limited to a few willing travelers, nor dependent on hopeful changes to gathering limits. ut our planning is ongoing,nnso we'll confidently get together later net year while the drumbeat grows a little loudernn, and a firm date will be announced soon.nno what's ahead in  he right answer is often the most obviousnnecentralizenn.nn. ecentralize nne're proud to announce that, while ournnevcon teamnnremains firmly focused on delivering on dc⟠vi in , *’s larger mission to continue supporting ecosystem activities will move forward too we’re already hearing about large events on the way fornnthis fallnn, and we’ll be lending our support to many in the community that are now stepping up.nnant to host something in your community, region, or online et us knownnherennand our team will be in touch to learn more.nne’ll help to promote and potentially coordinate these efforts into something as unique as the times we’re living through. n short, it's our hope that we can all come together as different teams, regions, offices and thereum users for a set of worldwide and independent events this fall.nn. o half-measuresnnet's be frank e won't simply serve up thennleast badnncontingency or substitute option for the community and call it "evcon" when we've just pledged to do things right.nnockdowns are being lifted in many regions for the first time, but it will be a while longer before local leaders lift travel restrictions to the etent needed for an internationally-attended, large-scale event like evcon. e’ve also considered what’s best for the many speakers, volunteers and attendees that deserve confident decision-making before preparing for long journeys.nno rather than asking you all to continue to wait with bated breath or delaying plans by a few short months, we're going to lengthen our lead time and super-size our ongoing efforts around evcon  in . his can be done staying true to thereum’s roots with ecosystem-driven events in , and without defaulting to a simple virtual event.nn🏟 rowing a ommunity 🏟nnevcon is meaningful to so many people and in many unique ways, and we're thrilled to bring the event to outh merica for the first time. his event represents many things to the many different types of attendees that come together to be there.nnt is a homecoming for many active participants in the world of thereum. t is a large stage on which to present the latest groundbreaking ideas and achievements for the builders that make thereum what it is and what it will become. nd to all of us, evcon is an opportunity to bring new faces, places and entire communities into the fold.nnn ogotá, we have already crossed paths with so many people and groups that are eager to meet more of the thereum community and to welcome evcon for the first time. he pieces are in place to accomplish an important goal around community growth and assistance set out for evcon. rom builders, to educational entities, local business leaders, decision-makers and more, we're already meeting and working with the people of ogotá, olombia, and outh merica to help make real-world use of thereum's technology and to further it.nnevcon week is more than just one event, but a diverse set of meetups, sub-conferences and more that highlight the best of our ecosystem. et year, we're looking forward to adding some local flare, integration with other events, local businesses, and more.nnore to comennith the etra lead-time, we’re ecited to build bigger and better than ever, to reveal simpler processes for attendees, and to see far more integration with the local community.nnn coming posts, we’ll cover more about the event date, the city and our recommendations for your stay and for getting around, our support for other  events, the  cholars rogram and more. ntil then, keep posted tonnevcon.orgnnfor more, stay safe, and thank you for your patience while we worked to figure out the best path forward. ee you all soon!nn🦄