Titre: Devcon: What is Ahead\nAuteur: Devcon Team\nDate: Team on March 2, 2020\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/03/02/devcon-whats-ahead\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhat evcon is all aboutnnow that we’re well into the new year, our evcon team wanted to share some of our thinking on what’s to come for evcon this year. ith new goals driving this year’s effort, we’ve learned from successes and challenges in recent years, and we’ll provide some early details on what’s ahead.nnor those that are new to the thereum family, evcon is the only annual gathering held by the thereum oundation, and it dates back to a small meetup in erlin (ÐΞcon-) about a year prior to the launch of the network. or some members of the thereum ecosystem, evcon is a family reunion of sorts, while for others it’s a large stage on which to speak to the latest breakthroughs on content ranging from technical research to application releases and more.nnver the years, it has become clear that evcon serves the community in other ways too. s we plan for evcon , we’re working to define those goals, and to ensure that evcon accomplishes each of themnn. ollaboration & knowledge sharingnnevcon is a place where a lot of work gets done. t’s a chance to be in the same room as everyone else in the community working on a specific problem. t’s critical that attendees be able to find meeting space, a space to talk, to pull up to a whiteboard, and get to work.nn. eaching, communicating, and generating new ideasnnevcon is a chance to learn, and to teach! eople travel to evcon to understand the cutting edge in the thereum space, and to share what they have learned over the last year with a large audience both at the event, and online.nn. se our biggest stage to send a messagennevcon is a critical opportunity to communicate with the world about thereum. s the largest conference in our industry, the broader technology space and mainstream organizations pay attention to evcon. et’s show them what we’ve accomplished.nn. sing tech built on thereum through “dogfooding”nnevcon is a conference made by and for our community and it should make use of tools built by our community where possible and beneficial to attendees. n the spirit of educating our community and supporting thereum-based projects, evcon should enable attendees to eperiment first-hand with products built on thereum.nn. rowing the thereum cosystemnnevcon is an opportunity for each of us to engage with those from other teams and communities, both from thereum and blockchain related teams and newcomers from other industries. n past years, we’ve collaborated with  and the nternet rchive on stage, and brought the zero-knowledge community into the fold. any people unfamiliar with the thereum ecosystem attend evcon, and while this is anndevnnelopersnnconnnference, they should feel welcome and inspired by our amazing community by the week’s end.nnistening and earningnnur ecosystem has matured and is constantly improving, and we know that evcon should keep pace. n this, the entire team wanted to first pass along annthank younnfor the constructive feedback that we’re confident will help lead to the best event that we’ve held to date.nnpecifically, planning for evcon (nndc⟠vinn) has honed in on  key areas to make for a better attendee eperience.nnpecifically, we’ve aimed to find a venue withnnmodern ii infrastructure and connectivitynnimproved crowdflow, meeting space, and stagesnnin-house and easy catering options for attendees of all needs and dietsnne’ve also taken a hard look at internal processes and are ecited to speak to these topics soonnnan improved programming and stage selection processnnfairer and more diverse ticketing systemsnnmore ecosystem integration (dogfooding)nnddressing some of these in brief, a high-speed and modern ii infrastructure will smooth up streaming capability for a worldwide thereum user-base that deserves to watch each stage live, and workshop eperiences for attendees. o matter how many friends are on-site, they’ll have ways to connect.nnver the last two years, the evcon speaker application process decentralized through a multi-track process and over  reviewers. his year, we’re aiming to improve the eperience for all applicants, to gauge attendee preference for help with stage selection, and more.nnur goal is to provide the best possible eperience for all attendees, while remaining true to thereum’s roots. his year, we think we’re well on the way to making this a reality, and we hope that you’ll all be involved.nnhat’s etnne’re well underway in planning for the first evcon in which eth’s beacon chain is live and ether is staked! n addition to the improvements listed above, we’re planning for an event with continued dogfooding, a smoother ticketing process and more -- all to be outlined in coming posts.nns for this year’s region, the evcon  search began prior to evcon  with an understanding that the further ahead we are in terms of planning, the smoother the process will be for all attendees. fter listening to community input, undergoing a thorough site-search in over  cities, we’re confident that we’ve landed a region and venue that are truly deserving of the event, and that accomplish every goal laid out above to help make this the best evcon ever.nne’ll be announcing the location of evcon  shortly --- keep an eye on thenn lognnfor more on site-selection, and for early application information and more.nnpdate (//) ut of respect for those within our own community and around us currently facing the ongoing global health crisis, our team has decided to temporarily hold scheduled evcon announcements, first teased above. hile other news will follow and our planning continues, we appreciate your continued patience and hope that everyone is acting to stay safe!nne hope that you’ll be as ecited as we are and somewhat surprised when we share more information in the net evcon update over the net few weeks 🌎. hese updates will come a bit earlier than in previous years, so check back often!nnor now, thank you once again to all of our attendees for joining us in saka, to the presenters, to thennsupportersnnthat made the event possible, and to you (the community) for your feedback over the last many months.nnoving forward while reminiscing...nnooking for clips and more from saka e have a few albums and playlists to share that you may want to look through! heck out the photos and videos below!nnevcon ecap ideonn-nnideographer omo aitonnevcon, lbum nn-nnhotographer am inslownnevcon, lbum nn-nnhotographer akura orldwidennet, we know that talks have been widely shared, but if you’re looking for something specific or for your presentation (both the mainstage and breakout room playlists), see the links below!nnain tagesnnall nnnnay nn|nnay nn|nnay nnall nnnnay nn|nnay nn|nnay nnonvention allnnnnay nn|nnay nn|nnay nn|nnay nnreakouts & ighlightsnnatch all of the evcon reakout all videos herennevcon had its share of highlights, including significant th announcements, presentations onnnennandnnth nnprogress, a celebrity appearance by the world’s most well-known dog, abosu (the original “oge”), and much much more. uch wow.nnphoto credit le van de andennnd if you missed the keynote, click here for annnopening from the city of sakann, thennunveilingnnof thenn ryptofundnn, and more.nnost importantly, evcon remains focused on the developers and researchers that make thereum what it is, and our own team will continue to learn from all of you. his never-ending goal of improvement will help to ensure thatnndc⟠vinnis the best thereum gathering yet, and we hope to see you all there.nn🦄nn--nndevcon team