Titre: ESP: Beyond Grants\nAuteur: Ecosystem Support Program Team\nDate: August 19, 2020\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/08/19/esp-beyond-grants\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nince transitioning into thenncosystem upport rogramnnfrom  rants, we’ve talked about defining “support” more comprehensively, thinking beyond simple grant funding. ut what does a more comprehensive definition of support actually meannnn practice, it means something different for every project, and it starts with a conversation.  was conceived to make a wide range of ’s resources more accessible to the community, which starts with making our process accessible to anyone who might need support. e take the time to think critically about everynninquirynn, understand the project and eplore ways we might be able to help. f course we can’t fund every project, but often we can donnsomethingnn, even if it’s recommending additional resources to investigate such as incubators or other funding sources.nnhe whole point of this shift in thinking is to make the process more fleible and responsive to individual needs - which is a good thing! t the same time, the outcomes of this personalized process can be difficult to quantify or put into lists the way we can with traditional grants so we thought we’d show rather than tell. e rounded up a few eamples of projects (and the awesome people behind them!) that have come through ’s inquiry process, received different kinds of support, and made a little bit go a very long way.nnrchive odennhe idea for rchive ode was born as anntweetnn. he hardware to run an archive node, or the monthly fees to access archive data through an , can be prohibitively epensive for small projects with little or no funding. unter and hase, akannei udennandnnysticyuujinnnrespectively, are long-time thereum contributors with a keen understanding of the challenges that developers can face in getting affordable access to needed resources so they set out to find a way to provide access to archive node data for developers who need it.nnhe team needed a place to host the first node, so we provided  credit to get a node up and running. his will give them a good runway but as ei ude wrote in thennannouncement blog postnn, once the project is more established, the hope is to eventually move toward the more sustainable and decentralized approach of running nodes off hardware rather than cloud services. ince unveiling the project in late une, the team has set up additional nodes (with help from community membernnan atthewsnn) of ie, and started to accept applications for access, growing a community of developers who are able to access needed data without incurring the considerable cost of setting up their own node.nnlthough access is currently free, in the long term the team hopes this can be a community-funded project, with developers who need the service paying a small fraction of what it would cost them to run an archive node themselves. n the meantime we’re thrilled to be able to help provide this valuable resource as the community around it grows!nnearn more and apply for access atnnhttps//archivenode.io/nn, or follow rchive ode on witternnarchivenodenn.nnavennave started as annhackathon projectnn, but the team had bigger plans for it they’ve continued to build with the long term goal of making it easy to create self-insured versions of decentralized assets, allowing users to better protect savings kept in decentralized assets.nnavennpasses  through ompound and automatically purchases insurance via pyn rotocol to create insured, interest-bearing, dollar-pegged  tokens that can be transferred, bought, sold, and integrated into other protocols. he save team are building this architecture into a front-end platform, but the contract has beennnopen sourcednnso that anyone can use, adapt, integrate or contribute to the code.nnhe team’s most immediate concern was making sure that their code was secure and stable in order to minimize risk to users’ funds. e were able to connect them with a technical epert for a code review, and they used the comprehensive feedback they received to refine their launch strategy and continue development with greater confidence. hey’re preparing to launch a public alpha and are looking forward to getting feedback from early users!nnf you’d like to learn more, you can dig into thenndocumentationnn, follow along on witternnsave_dainnor get involved onnnithubnn.nnollegiate ....nnoe esley is new to thereum and tech in general, a former  player turned motivational speaker - not necessarily what people think of as the typical  inquirer. ut the truth is we love getting to know new people, and oe is eactly the type of builder we want to hear from creative, motivated, an avid learner and inspired by the potential of distributed technology. e came to us with a plan to build a platform on thereum that would address a problem that he’s directly eperienced as a college and professional athlete from a low income background college athletes get little benefit from the ways in which their brand, image and likeness are used by others for profit. oe wanted to help athletes build relationships with advertisers where they would have more control over their brand, data and finances - enabling them to, in oe’s words, “earn today and tomorrow off their brand and their fame.”nnoe’s biggest initial hurdle was simply getting to know thereum, its community and technology. e provided some initial feedback on his idea and he was back two weeks later with a draft of his whitepaper. e knew that dedication and enthusiasm, as well as his unique perspective, could only add value to the ecosystem so we sent him to enver for a crash course in everything thereum. here, he lived th life to the fullest networking, attending talks, learning the landscape, meeting ufficorn and winning the ploration rack sponsored by ryptohicks.nnince enver oe has kept in touch with contacts he made at enver as well as continued to consult with members of the  and other eperts as he works to build a prototype that he can share with potential customers and investors. o far oe has been a one-man team, but is now looking to scale up by hiring a  who can help take ollegiate ..... (rand, mage and ikeness ) to testnet and beyond.nnet in touch or find out more about ollegiate ..... on nstagramnncollegiatebilusnn!nnthereum ush otification ervicenn was just an idea when we first met arsh ajat. e saw a need for push notification capabilities within thereum, both for public service announcements to thereum users and for dapp builders that wanted a new way to engage customers. e saw a driven, innovative builder who was deeply committed to thereum’s growth and success.nnarsh didn’t need much more than encouragement and feedback to help refine the concept and talk through net steps. e took his idea to ackoney, where icha oshi joined the team. ogether, they developed the core concept of  into a many-layered and ever-evolving architecture in which critical information can be broadcast to thereum’s users dapp builders can target users they know want to hear from them and dapp users can both choose their level of engagement, and be rewarded for opting in to a higher level of engagement with their favorite dapps.nnince ackoney, icha and arsh have directed incredible energy toward building  into what they call “a missing piece of web.” hey’vennlaunchednn, offering early access and annnalpha dappnn been accepted to itcoin’snn ellowshipnn and are now growing their team and developing a business model that will allow them to build a self-sustaining platform without compromising their commitment to keep users’ interests at the forefront.nnheck outnnhttps//epns.io/nnand keep up with ’s progress on witternnepnsprojectnn.nne love the many builders we work with for their commitment to finding the best way forward even when it isn’t the simplest or most obvious. lthough funding is often the easiest thing to ask for, it isn’t necessarily the ideal solution a grant won’t get a project where it needs to go if we don’t dig deeper to find the real core of the challenges the project faces.nnust because a project isn’t funded through an  grant doesn’t mean we aren’t willing and able to provide meaningful and sometimes material support. hat said, we can’t offer support to every team that approaches us, as much as we would like to! nd just like grants, recipients of other types of support we offer only reap the benefits by taking responsibility for their own success and putting in a lot of hard work.nnll of the teams featured in this post are building toward very different goals, but they have one thing in common they came with the openness and insight to work with us on finding the best intersection of their needs and our capabilities.nne have been lucky to get to know all of these remarkable builders and are so proud of the hard work that they’ve put in. e can’t wait to see what they do net!nn🦾