Titre: Update on the partnership between EF and UNICEF\nAuteur: Aya Miyaguchi\nDate: November 24, 2021\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2021/11/24/ef-unicef-update\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nince , we have supportednn’s ryptoundnnwith recurring contributions, and we are ecited aboutnnour most recent donation toonn. oday,  would like to share the story of our journey together, to recognize some of the achievements of our partnership, and to speak a bit more about what’s net.nnhy and how we startednnn annprevious blog postnn,  eplained how emerging economies represent a huge opportunity for thereum, and talked about the importance of asking ourselvesnn“who would most benefit from thereum”nneople living in emerging economies represent billions of net-generation users and developers of thereum. he net question should then benn“how do we reach the net billion”nnhe thereum project started with a small group of people on a shared mission, and today the project has attracted hundreds of thousands of like-minded developers and researchers. his like-mindedness was the power that aligned the community, but we should admit that it also created natural barriers to entry for those who were not connected with someone in the community. ecause of this,  was always aware that the thereum community was lacking the true diversity needed to maimize the technology’s real potential, and to reach the net billion.nnround the end of ,  was seeking opportunities to epand our reach when  met hris abian from  entures (who now leads thenniga projectnn, which we also support). o be honest, ahead of our first meeting,  had doubts about whether  would work well with a team from the nited ations.  felt they were a very traditional, big organization with conventional ways of doing things. ut hris shared a couple of lists of goals that they wanted to achieve using blockchain technology, and that blew my mind.nne and his team understood the importance of public blockchains, as well as the tradeoffs of various protocols. his was the moment when  felt confident that there was an opportunity for both groups to have an impactful partnership.  has a network, and resources that we did not have, with ongoing work in more than  countries, and collaboration with diverse stakeholders including s, businesses, startups, and governments. hey were also looking for new ways to change from the inside, and to embrace innovation. his is how our collaboration started, and from there we began to support the  ryptound, which wasnnannounced and launchednnat evcon  in ctober of .nnhris abian and  at evcon , which coincided with alloween. he  entures team spent a sleepless night coordinating with the eadquarters for the launch of the ryptound.nn ryptoundnnt was natural for the  to become the founding donor to the  ryptound given our collaboration. he ryptound is the first vehicle in the entire  ecosystem - and possibly the public sector at large - to receive, hold, and use crypto, and it makes investments in support of technology startups within developing countries that are aimed at improving the lives of children. hese startups receive tokens and use them without converting to fiat currencies, within the goal of developing open-source, digital public goods. o date, ,  and   have been contributed, and  investments have been made.nnt the same time, the ryptound is trying to tackle a key challenge for organizations like  - one of transparency and accountability. raditionally, donors and other stakeholders don’t have access to a real-time, tamper-proof view of how a charity spends its money. n the case of the ryptound, every transaction the ryptound makes is visible onnnits websitennwith a corresponding link containing immutable transaction details on blockchain eplorers.nnn the image above, you can see the ’s most recent donation - received first by  rance and then transferred to the  eadquarters.nnhe ryptound website is powered bynnunipernn, an open-source set of tools developed by  entures to help manage digital assets. ny public sector organization that wants to leverage tokens in a user-friendly, transparent way, can eperiment with uniper today.nnany of the  startups that have received a ryptound investment use blockchain-based technology in their products as well, and we will continue to support them through workshops, and by connecting them to wonderful talents and projects in the thereum ecosystem. ou can read more about these startups developing open-source, digital public goodsnnherenn.nn cannot emphasize enough how influential this project has been -- not only for the humanitarian sector and governments, but even to the world. t has raised awareness and let the public see how it is possible for a large, established and international organization to adopt public blockchains in efficient and transparent ways.  have heard so much positive feedback and truly hope that other traditional organizations like  feel more confident making use of these public goods too.nnhat’s netnnhile we continue our support for the ryptound and its portfolio companies developing digital public goods in emerging economies, ’s collaboration with  is evolving. hrough the newnn ellowship rogramnn, we are supporting two eciting developments. ne  ellow - who represents a ryptound portfolio company - is working with many national and municipal governments in atin merica to use blockchain in digital identity and verifiable credentials. nother  ellow is eploring the intersection of internet connectivity and blockchain, working with iga, which is a joint initiative by  and the nternational elecommunications nion () aimed at providing internet to every school in the world.nn am ecited to share more about their work in the coming months and look forward to epanding our reach to the net billion through our continued partnership with . n the meantime, you can find them on witternn nnovationnn(which manages the ryptound),nn rancenn(which was the first national committee to use crypto) , andnnigann.nnastly,  would like to send my deepest appreciation to unita rote, who leads the  enture und, hristina ose omazzo, ’s blockchain lead (as well as ehran ydary, ecilia hapiro, and others who were part of the journey together), and to hris abian, for pushing the needle together for these important steps.