Titre: Announcing Devcon Archive V2\nAuteur: Devcon Team\nDate: Team on November 3, 2021\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2021/11/03/devcon-archive-v2\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nevconnnisnncoming in nn(along with something new 🤫), but ahead of our net event updates, we invite you to check out a completely refreshed evcon archive.nneet the new evcon rchivennevcon’s impact goes beyond just the physical event, and with that in mind, we’ve completely revamped the evcon archive. hanges include an improved , better discoverability of content, reduced reliance on ouube, more decentralized content via , and community involvement in curation.nnhrough all of this, we hope evcon can continue to be an unparalleled educational resource to learn about the past, present, and future of the ecosystem. ead on to learn more about what’s new (and to try to earn a ), ornncheck out the site for yourself nownn.nn urated ontent ubnnased on preliminary user research with thennoriginalnnarchive implementation, users found it difficult to navigate the hundreds of evcon videos from each edition. ontent discoverability and guidance were lacking, and talks were provided with little to no contet or metadata.nnne common thread that we heard from the feedback sessions was that specific talks were instrumental in understanding critical concepts. eople re-visited those talks regularly through the archive, but only because they had been initially eposed to the session on the event schedule, or had actually attended the session.nnnd as much as the live sessions are core to the evcon eperience, the influ of parallel content makes it very difficult for attendees to participate in all the sessions that they wish to attend. or that reason, other people rely on video playbacks to catch up on the content after the event.nndditionally, curated content was repeatedly mentioned as a way to help epose users to new ideas and fresh perspectives that would have otherwise been largely ignored. ne of the most consistent positive pieces of feedback that we continuously receive related to the evcon in-person eperience is the serendipitous learning and ideas that the attendees eperience when they engage with content they had not previously planned on attending. e wanted to capitalize on this opportunity and allow the community to help craft this moment of delight through suggested playlists on niche areas of content epertise. f you are interested in helping with this, please check out thennoad to evcon uestnnahead for community curated playlists.nnaking ontent ore iscoverablennrom a user-perspective, our goal was to make the evcon archive be as easy as possible to navigate, filter, and access content based on your specific interest and skill level.nnhe new archive has been rebuilt from the ground up with a mobile-first implementation, allowing you to access your favorite thereum developer content on any device. ue to the comprehensive amount of metadata now available on the archive, you are able to search and filter videos with a variety of inputs. asily search content based on the speaker, talk descriptions, devcon tracks, keywords, level of epertise or the evcon event editions. ou can also access a wide array of curated and suggested playlists to help discover interesting and engaging content.nnote f you are a speaker featured on the evcon archive and would like to help improve the content description (or wish to edit your speaker biography) please make a  directly on the archivenngithub pagenn, or contact us viannemailnn.nnecentralize t ll!nnne of the core objectives of the evcon team this year is to help dog-food and integrate core web technologies that provide clear benefit to attendees and online participants.nnnternally, our reliance on centralized platforms was a concern, due to the risk of deplatforming and censorship of services and websites becoming more prevalent, we wanted to make sure that all the evcon content was censorship resistant, accessible globally, and persistent at all times for interested individuals to engage with.nnor this reason, we decided tonnfully integrate  as a part of the evcon archive eperiencenn.  is a distributed system for storing and accessing files, websites, applications, and data.nnearn more about  herenn. ou can now find all the past evcon content hosted on , and easily accessible through the archive via the  video player tab. e also hope to see users pin their favorite content on  to make it more accessible, and to signal their preference around the type of content they enjoy the most and wish to share with others.nnpecial thanks to ndrew and arson from thennetilennteam, and to ietrich, din and olly fromnnrotocol absnnfor their continued guidance around  and ilecoin. e also owe gratitude to the  evops team for taking the heavy load of managing and uploading the large amount of videos on . 🙏nnoad to evcon uestsnno mark the continuous journey towards evcon, and to encourage community involvement, we will be adding two additional quests related to the evcon archive and the great content that eists on the oad to evcon quests.nnin the rchivenno help make accessibility to the content more censorship resistant and decentralized, we hope to see a lot more of the evcon content pinned by the users utilizing the archive. o ensure that content persists on , and is not deleted during garbage collection (a process to remove stale content), data can be pinned to one or more  nodes. inning gives you control over disk space and data retention. sers can use that control to pin any content they want to remain on  indefinitely. f you are one of the first  people to pin your favorite sessions to  and reach out to us on our oad to evcon iscord, we will issue you a unique, limited run .nnearn more about pinningnn, and aboutnnparticipating in the oad to evcon uest herenn.nnommunity urated laylistsnnommunity participants should be provided an equal opportunity to help curate the content on the evcon archive. e are encouraging all interested parties to submit curated playlists that provide insight into a core subject area or craft a historical narrative that can be easily discerned by newcomers or individuals looking to dig deeper into a specific topic.nnere are some eamples of curated playlistsnnhe mergence of mart ontract anguagesnn,nnecution ayernn. lease craft your playlists and submit a  on the evcon archive github. f your playlist is chosen, you will be granted a unique  as a part of the oad to evcon uests.nnearn more about participating in the uest herennand ornnaccess the github herenn.nnhat’s headnne continue to see opportunities to improve the archive, but want to hear your feedback on what would add the most value. s evcon approaches, we will continue to integrate user accounts to help you create your own custom personalized playlists, favorite talks and much more. e also plan on integrating the evcon live-streaming process closely to the archive to ensure that the content is easily accessible immediately after the net evcon, with the relevant supplementary information.nnf you have any additional ideas to help improve the evcon eperience or the archive, please check out thennevcon mprovement roposal rocessnnto learn how you can be an integral part of the evcon planning this year.nnudos to the evcon and eb teams for pushing the project forward 🚢.