Titre: Devcon VI Recap, Resources & Wrap-Up!\nAuteur: Devcon Team\nDate: Team on November 17, 2022\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2022/11/17/devcon-vi-wrap\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nfew weeks ago in ctober, much of the thereum community came together in outh merica as we reunited for evcon  in ogotá, olombia!nnoday we want to saynnhank ounn(!) to every attendee, volunteer, and contributor that made evcon  a success. n this blog post, we will recap the highlights of an incredibly fun event, and reminisce about ommunity ubs, the oad to evcon, insightful talks and panels, beautifully designed presenter rooms, and much more.nnatch thennecap ideonnto refresh your memory and enjoy the evcon  vibe!nnhat evcon is all aboutnnor those that are new to the thereum family, evcon is the only annual conference held by the thereum oundation, and it dates back to a small meetup in erlin (ÐΞcon-) about a year prior to thereum’s first blocks. or some members of the thereum ecosystem, evcon is a family reunion of sorts, while for others it’s a large stage on which to speak to (and learn about) the latest breakthroughs on content ranging from technical research to application releases and more.nnver the years, it has become clear that evcon serves the community in other ways too. s we planned for evcon , we worked to define those goals. ow we want to describe them once more and reflect on how we tried to accomplish each of them.nn. ollaboration & knowledge sharingnnevcon is not only a conference that features presentations, but it’s a unique place to get some work done with so many crucial builders in the same rooms. his year, we wanted them to have space to talk, to pull up to a whiteboard, and get to work together.nnt evcon  we hosted workshop rooms, dedicated co-work areas, bookable meeting spaces, and a hacker basement where people came together to meet and work. e also offered a co-working space after the event in the venue.nnhe hacker basement - hoto by hintaro oshimatsunn. eaching, communicating, and generating new ideasnnevcon is a chance to learn, and to teach. eople traveled to evcon to understand the cutting edge in the thereum space, and to share what they have learned over the last year with a large audience both at the event, and online.nnver the four days,nn, viewers around the worldnnwatched the evcon livestreams (, on the first day alone). roviding quality live streams and videos was crucial fornnevcon atellite ventsnn- educational meetups around the world organized for those who couldn’t make it to ogotá. he community organized evcon atellite vents in rgentina, olivia, olombia, alaysia, ortugal and urkey.nnommunity ubsnnwere dedicated spaces powered by the community for the community. hether you started your day with anncacao ceremonynnin the egens ub, you went anon  bynncrafting a mask in the emporary nonymous onenn, witnessed the launch of the firstnnoken ngineering undamentalsnnprogram, ornnvisualized your values about decentralizationnnin the esign ub, we hope that you felt more like a member of a diverse community than simply an attendee.nnhis was also the first evcon that featurednn“mpact ooths”nn, which were spaces reserved for teams and efforts making a positive impact on thereum and the ecosystem at large. reat things happen when clients, rollup-teams, and other impactful groups come together in one place. llegedly rivalrousnnrollup teams became friendsnn, others won annrare itcoin plushiennby revealing their favorite public good, some snagged a pair of the first evernnsocks.sol swagnn, or accepted the challenge of echanging as many  s as they could with other attendees tonnclimb the leaderboardnn.nnhe atin merican community had its own creative space annolombian hiva usnn. here, participants hosted discussion rounds, podcasts, and kept the music going until well after presentations had wrapped for the night.nnhenn atamnnteam in front of their hiva usnn. se our biggest stage to send a messagennevcon is a critical opportunity to communicate with the world about thereum. s the largest conference in our industry, the broader technology space and mainstream organizations pay attention to evcon.nnevcon  was the first afternnhe ergenntook place in eptember of this year! 🐼thereum ainnet now usesnnproof-of-stake for consensusnn, andnnanny yan talkednnabout how busy the last few months have been for the thereum core devs, what difficulties they faced when they merged the consensus and eecution layers, and what it means that they eist as one chain - thereum.nnther talks that are highly recommended to (re)watch are ya iyaguchi’s talk aboutnnecuting with ubtraction in the nfinite ardennn, urt psahl’s talknnhe alue of ryptocurrencies in upporting uman ightsnn, and ia ancini’s talknnhe uture is ollectivenn.nnpart from our recommendations, we also want to let you know what were some of the favorite picks by members of the community this yearnnhat to know about ero nowledgennltra ound oneynnccount bstraction anelnnnderstanding  rdering and ecution (aka verything ou've lways anted to now bout equencers ut ere fraid o sknnodular ollup heory hrough the ens of the  tacknn. sing tech built on thereum through “dogfooding”nn“ogfooding”nnis the practice of using one’s own products or services. evcon is a conference made by and for our community, and we want to make use of tools built by our community where possible and beneficial to attendees. evcon wants to enable attendees to learn and eperiment first-hand with products built on thereum.nneginning with ticketing,  peoplennparticipated in the on-chain raffle and auctionnnbefore the general ticket sale began.nnmart oken absnnhelped to make evcon  ticket attestations a reality, which allowed attendees to attest that they were evcon  ticket-holders without a wallet address or other personal identifying information being made public. hrough their platform, separate third parties offerednnpermissionless perks eclusively for evcon  attendeesnn.nnpeaking of dogfooding, how did you book your hotel in ogotá ttendees were able to pay for their rooms using crypto, thanks tonninding reenn.nnou can now watch all talks and panels from evcon  on more open and robust platforms too -nnwarmnnandnnthernannhelped us to make thennevcon rchivennmore decentralized by hosting the videos from talks and workshops. heck out thennwarm team’s recapnnfor more information on their work at evcon .nnany environmentally conscious attendees offset their flights with thenncarbon offsetter by iscarbonnn. s of now, participants have contributed to offset the equivalent of . onnes of . oters on thennsnapshot proposalnnchose to retire these credits from the ordillera zul ational ark + roject in erú.nnnd it goes without mention that everyone collectednna lotnnofnnsnnalong the way.nnanelnnigning in ith thereum the ost owerful rotocol in ebnn. rowing the thereum cosystemnnevcon is an opportunity to reach, ecite and engage more local thereum communities all around the world. his year, the atin merican thereum community paved thennoad to evconnnby organizing about  community events around atin merica, all leading up to evcon  in ogotá, where the leaders of the atam thereum community organized  atam ay one day before the main event started. atch theirnnrecap video here.nne believe thereum can have real-world impact in outh merica, and it is amazing to see how strong the atin merican thereum community has become.nn’s ecutive irector ya iyaguchinnrecently saidnnthat she “strongly believes] it’s important for builders to go out there and see all different parts of the world they are trying to change.” ome evcon attendees used the opportunity that the event provided to eplore outh merica a little further after evcon. hey came to know a community and part of the world that was previously foreign to them, or they arrived earlier and followed the oad to evcon.nnhe oad to evcon mapnnevcon is also an opportunity to reach blockchain-related teams and newcomers from other industries.  was once more a guest andnnspeaker at evconnn, as well asnnrkadiy ukarkin from the nternet rchivenn, and geopolitics and technology authornnruno açãesnn.nnthereum oundation’snnet illion team organized a one-day eventnnfor evcon attendees, government officials, non-profit and civil society organizations, and “anyone interested in learning about how we can use thereum as a public good destined to help billions of people coordinate and thrive.” he event focused on the ‘real-world’ factors faced by those who use thereum to create impact.nnhe programming tracknnpportunity & lobal mpactnnfeatured many more interesting talks and panels discussing how thereum can overcome “gaps in representation across cultures, nationalities, and economic classes.”nn(et illion)nnevcon  welcomed many people that are newer to the thereum ecosystem and that attended evcon for the first time. ith other programming tracks likennovernance & oordinationnn, andnnryptoeconomicsnn, and with a lot of crypto art and music along the way, we hope they felt inspired by our amazing community by the week’s end.nnrowing the thereum ecosystem also means supporting those who “have the potential to make a positive impact on thereum and its community, but who were unable to attend without financial assistance.”nnhe evcon cholars rogramnnhad its second class this year, and  individuals got support to attend evcon. eadnnsome of their stories and their perspectives on evcon  here!nn. un!nnlayfulness has always been part of evcon and of the thereum ecosystem at large. his is why evcon swag is colorful, onathan ann is singingnnhe erge ongnnon stage, andnnthe opening videonnfeatures animated dancing bears merging into a panda representing thereum.nnalling evcon a conference misses the mark in light of the colorful stages designed with love for detail, the adult playground with games like giant enga, and the hacker basement full of digital art to eplore.nn hellsnnandnnosendo erel hoynn- hoto by hintaro oshimatsunnany of the fun things evcon  offered were brought to life by the community itself. he music stage in the hiva hillout was a community initiative that was born from a evcon mprovement roposal () bynnhe ellowship of thereum usiciansnnthat turned into a larger project. ou can watch annvideo with highlights from all four days herenn. ach day, attendees could join a graffiti tour organized bynnnn, and the teams ofnnocial istrtion rotocolnnandnndaedalus industriesnnpuzzled out the reasure unt hallengenn“ime o ”nnfor you.nn. eedback & ontinued mprovementnne are always trying to learn and improve as well, and we thank everyone who gave us valuable feedbacknn(nnyou can still give feedback via our attendee survey and earn a .nn)nnhere are a few things we learned this year. i-i was an issue again, especially on the first day, and we know there is room for improvement, and our  cards for attendees were more vital than ever! he food can be even more versatile - including better vegetarian and vegan options. emale, ransgender, on-inary and other genders made up %+ of evcon 's attendees. till, we can do more to make both evcon and the ecosystem more representative in terms of gender diversity & inclusion in a still-male-dominated space.nns our event has grown larger and with over , in attendance, we recognize that the chances are greater for contention between some attendees. he first rule in the evcon ode of onduct is to "be ecellent to each other", and our commitment is to create a comfortable environment for all. e will review our o and consider improvements based on what we have learned this year.nnhat’s headnne are confident we won’t have to wait three years for the net evcon. t’s already time for you tonnget involved by proposing ideas to improve evconnn.nnya’s talk about subtraction made us reconsider the phrasing of s. evcon mprovement roposals are now intended for collaborative community input on what should bennchanged (subtracted, added, or modified)nnfor the upcoming evcon.nnhere will evcon take place n short e don’t know yet. ut the choice will be hard, as we have many incrediblennsuggestions for evcon locationsnnfrom members of the thereum community.nne hope that you’ll be as ecited as we are when we share more information in the weeks to come. or now, thank you once again to all of our attendees for joining us in ogotá, to the presenters, the mpact teams, upporters, ommunity ub organizers,  contributors, and volunteers that made evcon  possible. ❤️🦄nnntil we meet again, you can check out morennphotos by the evcon team herenn, and find morennphotos by hintaro oshimatsu herenn.nn–
 evcon eam