Titre: Academic Grants Round 2023 Announcement\nAuteur: Rodrigo Vasquez\nDate: June 28, 2023\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2023/06/28/academic-grants-round-23\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\ne are ecited to announce the recipients of this year's cademic rants ound. e received more than  applications and have awarded over $ million in funding to  projects across several categories.nnhe awarded teams are distributed all across the globe with researchers from ustria, ustralia, anada, hina, rance, ermany, hana, ungary, taly, enya, alaysia, ew ealand, oland, ingapore, outh orea, pain, witzerland, hailand, nited ingdom, nited tates, and ietnam.nnere are the categories and the number of funded projects in eachnnategorynnumber of rojectsnnmount ()nnryptographynnnn$,nnconomics & nnnn$,nnecution ayernnnn$,nnormal erificationnnnn$,nn etworkingnnnn$,nnecuritynnnn$,nnociety and egulatorynnnn$,nnotalnnnn$,,nnryptographynnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnrror orrecting odes for fficient  roversnnrof. enkatesan uruswaminn, ary aller, ark imkin, &nnratyush anjan iwarinnniversity of alifornia at erkeley, thereum oundation, & ohns opkins niversitynno establish a collaborative effort among cryptography eperts, aiming to enhance parameter efficiencies, and provide certainty in analysis. his could lead to a working group within the roof standards initiative and eplore the feasibility of utilizing the  polynomial commitment scheme in future zk implementation on layer .nnunctional ommitments and s from attices onstructions and ryptanalysisnnrof. avid unnhe niversity of eas at ustinnno develop new lattice-based frameworks for functional commitments and succinct arguments while creating innovative cryptanalytic approaches to evaluate the associated lattice-based assumptions. his project will enable efficient post-quantum protocols for delegating and verifying computations.nnattice-based succinct linear functional commitmentsnnrof. en ischnn, eyu iu, & si eselynnale niversitynno construct lattice-based polynomial commitments and s that compete with the efficiency of code-based schemes like . he main focus of the project is to enhance concrete performance, with preliminary results indicating the first lattice-based  with both logarithmic size and verification time asymptotically.nn- using  assisted by nteractive raud roofsnnehyuk ang,nnoonhyeong eongnn,nnr. amie uddnn,nneungjin imnn, & onghwa arknnnther thereum esearch enternno develop a new zk- that integrates interactive fraud proofs () and  proofs for more efficient transaction processing. his approach involves two-stage verification initially verifying the commitment to a new smart contract with , then verifying arithmetic calculations with . his proposal aims to reduce the size of the universal circuit for , thereby minimizing the time and space compleity of generating and verifying transaction proofs.nn-arnessnnrof. awn ongnn,nnrof. rthur ervaisnn,nneevashwer atheenn,nntefanos haliasosnn,nnens rnstbergernnniversity of alifornia at erkeley, niversity ollege ondon, mperial ollege, echnical niversity of unichnno propose a benchmarking framework that accommodates new zero-knowledge proof () libraries and languages, and to conduct a comprehensive analysis of these benchmarks. his work will aid developers in making informed decisions when choosing a  library or language.nnconomics & nnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnenchmarking and nalyzing the as etering echanism of -equivalent zkollupsnntefanos haliasosnn,nnrof. rthur ervaisnn, &nnrof. en ivshitsnnmperial ollege ondonnno conduct a comprehensive analysis of croll's and olygon's zk implementations, focusing on the implications of maintaining thereum's gas metering mechanism in a zk rollup setup. his study aims to highlight potential issues and security implications associated with this gas metering mechanism, and contribute to the ongoing efforts to provide a zkollup scalability solution for thereum.nnenial-of-ervice mplications of lockchain ensorshipnnviv aishnn,nnaihua innn,nniyi hounn, &nnrof. rthur ervaisnnhe ebrew niversity, niversity ollege ondon, & mperial ollege ondonnno identify and classify potential enial-of-ervice (o) attack vectors that could emerge in the presence of censoring blockchain validators. he project will further aim to measure the impact of such attacks on validators' computational resources and revenue. ltimately, the goal is to develop effective strategies for mitigating these identified threats. his is necessary because censorship on the blockchain can not only affect neutrality but also increase vulnerability to o attacks, where attackers can create computationally comple transactions that drain validator resources without paying the requisite transaction fees.nnesign of utomated arket akers from rediction arket rinciplesnnrof. o aggonernn&nnrof. afael rongillonnniversity of olorado, ouldernno apply undereplored technical tools from automated prediction markets to the design and analysis of automated market makers like niswap. he project will focus on interfaces for liquidity providers and interpret the supply and demand of liquidity as information about the value of various assets.nn- arket and alldata osting trategiesnnr. kaki amageishvilinn&nnrof. d eltonnnffchain absnno investigate the market dynamics following the deployment of thereum mprovement roposal number  (), which aims to lower the calldata costs for rollup protocols by creating a parallel market for stored data. his study will focus on how this new market interacts with the eisting global blockspace market.nnift conomies of calennaluca iugannnndependentnno define, design, and assess the feasibility of gifting-based economies, considered as blockchain-based peer-to-peer networks with incentivized donation protocols. his project aims to eplore whether the practice of gifting could form the foundation of robust micro-economies and be scalable through inter-economy protocols.nnhe ature of the nnrof. inclair avidsonnn niversitynno establish a robust theoretical framework that situates ecentralized utonomous rganizations (s) within organizational theory. his project, inspired by onald oase's seminal question 'hy do firms eist', seeks to answer 'hy do s eist' and aims to provide insights that can guide both practitioners and policymakers.nnn the ecurity of take-and-lash echanisms in ayer- caling olutionsnnrof. iasun innndependentnno analyze the strategic interactions among participants in various ayer- scaling solutions using a game-theoretical framework inspired by the classic "monitoring game" in economics. his project will focus on formally evaluating the security performance of widely adopted "stake and slash" mechanisms in these solutions.nnuantifying and educing uilder/earcher/elay entralization isk in the ontet of aimal tractable aluennr. gostino apponinnolumbia niversitynno assess the threats posed by iner tractable alue () to thereum's security and efficiency, this project proposes the utilization of mechanism design and economic analysis. hile riority as uctions (s) address some security concerns, negative impacts of  persist and could even lead to new centralization risks. his project aims to systematically evaluate these concerns and provide practical insights.nnalidator conomics ariable minimum validator deposit sizennr. andra ohnsonnn,nnrof. errie engersennn, &nnatrick 'allaghannnonsenys oftwarenno identify the most effective strategy for capping the validator set size on the thereum beacon chain. his research is aimed at ensuring system stability and facilitating the feasibility of single slot finality (), even in situations of potential overpopulation by validators.nnecution ayernnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnn-nnzymon ulecnnethermindnno eplore a new  implementation called - which leverages the .'s intermediate language () for improved performance. his approach involves precompiling the most commonly used contracts to , allowing the . ust n ime compiler to optimize the code more effectively, thereby improving the speed of the thereum node. reliminary work indicating the potential of this method can be foundnnherenn.nnaprikannzymon ulecnnethermindnno reimagine thereum's data storage methods by leveraging techniques such as copy-on-write, a prefi +-tree, and memory-mapped files. he project focuses on improving the handling of reorganizations, facilitating efficient data access, and constructing erkle (or potentially erkle) tries. his unique approach is driven by thereum's distinctive data access patterns and challenges associated with reorganizations. reliminary results demonstrating the potential of this novel methodology are availablennherenn.nnormal erificationnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnninancial odel-riven ttack ynthesis for einnrof. u engnn, anju hen, & ongbo ennnniversity of alifornia, anta arbaranno develop a highly effective attack synthesis framework for ei protocols that goes beyond the capabilities of eisting tools like oundry and lither. he project aims to address the limitations of these tools, which struggle with comple interactions and large search spaces in non-trivial ei protocols. ather than constructing the attack from scratch, the new approach will respect the high-level semantics of ei protocols and be guided by the financial models underpinning them.nn . mally rified  optimization -- leveraging  to inter-block optimizationsnnrof. amir enaimnn,nnrof. lvira lbertnn, &nnrof. nrique artin-artinnnomplutense niversity of adridnno develop  ., a fully automated contet-sensitive verification tool in oq, designed to check the semantic equivalence of two  sequences under a given initial contet. his project's objective is to facilitate the verification of cross-block optimizations in thereum's irtual achine.nn (dy optimizatio of  bytecode)nnrof. lvira lbertnn,nnrof. ablo ordillonn,nnlejando ernández-erezonn,nnrof. esús orreasnn,nnrof. uillermo ománnn, &nnrof. lberto ubionnomplutense niversity of adridnno construct advanced thereum irtual achine () optimization technology by integrating three critical features optimizing memory/storage usage and identifying inefficient code patterns, deducing inter-block information for  sequence optimization, and overcoming / performance limitations for medium-sized  instruction sequences. pected outcomes include a % byte-size reduction, % gas reduction, and quicker optimization of medium-sized contracts. urthermore, inefficient memory usage in solc compiler-generated  code will be detected and optimized. he result, referred to as the  project, will be a standalone optimization tool that can be integrated into an  compiler either fully or in parts.nneal-orld emonstrations of the afnynnr. avid earcenn,nnr. ranck asseznn,nnoracio .. uilesnn, &nnoanne ullernnonsenysnno continue the development of afny, an eecutable and formal  semantics developed by onsenys' rustworthy mart ontracts () eam, and further leverage its deductive verification capabilities for  bytecode. afny provides an easily understandable representation of  semantics that is verified using the afny verifier, enabling formal verification of smart contract properties at the bytecode level. his project seeks to enhance afny's robustness in reasoning about bytecode, as demonstrated through validation against numerous thereum ommon ests.nn etworkingnnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnast ignature ggregation rotocol for ingle lot inalitynnrof. ános apolcainn,nnence adóczkinn, &nnrof. ajos ónyainnndependentnno achieve single slot ( seconds) on-chain asper finality loops, this project seeks to eplore a space-time trade-off in signature aggregation schemes. he study takes into account two key performance metrics the space occupied by the signatures stored on-chain and the time to reach finality. he proposed two-step solution involves a primary objective of fast finality achievement, potentially at the cost of more space, followed by a secondary objective of generating a smaller, more efficient proof of finality.nnowards losing the oop on thereum etwork o nsecurity by pplied ormal ethodsnnrof. uzhe angnn,nniaqi hennn,nnanning ingnn, &nnhihua angnnyracuse niversitynno address o insecurity in thereum networks, this project will systematically identify and formally model vulnerable code modules within thereum's  networking stack. y running model checkers, it aims to verify security or detect violations. utcomes will include an open-source software toolset and benchmarks of defense code, aimed at bolstering thereum networking security and crypto-asset safety.nniscovering o ttacks in eer iscovery rotocols of thereum  etworksnnrof. ai inn, hiuan uan, & arren eennan iego tate niversitynno systematically test and eamine peer discovery protocols and network interfaces in thereum eecution and consensus clients to discover and fi o attacks.nnecuritynnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnynamic nalysis ramework for nnrof. rthur ervaisnn,nnaihua innn,nnrof. awn ongnn, hun ang, & he ennniversity ollege ondon, mperial ollege ondon, niversity of alifornia, erkeley, singhua niversitynno develop a dynamic analysis framework for thereum irtual achine () transactions, which employs a unique graphical structure and graph traversal techniques to identify contract attacks in real-time. his project aims to improve the analysis, understanding, and mitigation of security vulnerabilities in smart contracts.nnachine earning mpowered llicit mart ontract and ransaction etectionnnr. aniel iapu uonn, ihao i, unsong hao, & inan iangnnong ong olytechnic niversitynno propose novel solutions and develop a system capable of detecting malicious smart contracts and transactions on the thereum platform. his system will leverage machine learning and program analysis techniques. urthermore, this system will be used to conduct a large-scale measurement study on malicious activities on thereum.nnassively arallel mart ontract uzzing on snnrof. oi eng hinnn,nnr. umitrel oghinnn,nnr. o hut inhnn,nnr. a uang rungnnational niversity of ingaporenno develop a lightweight  eecutor implemented on vidia s, designed to epedite fuzz-testing and improve code coverage for smart contracts. his project aims to uncover more bugs within the same time budget by making the eecution of smart contracts on an instrumented  more efficient.nnnderstanding ross-chain ridges haracteristics and ecurity mplicationsnnrof. inquan hangnn,nnrof. ianyu iunn,nnrof. hiquiang innn, &nnrof. iaokuan hangnnech, hio tate niversity, eorge ason niversitynno undertake a comprehensive eploration of cross-chain bridges, focusing specifically on their characteristics and security implications. his project is an initial step towards understanding these bridges better, which are often used for transferring tokens and data across different blockchain networks, but are currently not thoroughly analyzed for their features and security implications.nnnderstanding the ecurity andscape of roy-based mart ontract pgrades hrough the ens of ransactionsnnrof. iaokuan hangnn,nnrof. hiqiang innn, engya hang, & reksha huklanneorge ason niversity & hio tate niversitynno conduct a large-scale empirical analysis of upgradable smart contracts to understand their usage, costs, and security implications in the thereum ecosystem. his study will shed light on the current landscape of these smart contracts, which offer a mitigation strategy for vulnerabilities due to their ability to be upgraded.nnociety and egulatorynnrojectnnesearch eamnnnstitutionnnescriptionnnarriers and drivers of blockchain adoption in emerging markets arge-scale tet analysis and survey eperiments among frican regulators and citizensnnliza  aknn,nnr. mmanuel oel ikins bakahnn, &nnohammad bdullahnnale, niversity of hana, & ni, alaysianno discern the key drivers and barriers to blockchain adoption across frica, this project proposes to systematically collate data through digital trace data, surveys, and interviews. y scraping data from social media, news articles, and oogle search trends, the project aims to construct a country-level lockchain ttitudes doption nde for all frican nations, comparing it with measures of financial sector stability. he research will particularly focus on hana as a case study to collect original data, assessing the perceived potential benefits and risks of blockchain from the perspectives of individuals and regulators.nnlockchain ensorship - uantitative nalysis of ensorship on ublic lockchainsnnnton harstätternn,nnrof. rthur ervaisnn,nniyi hounn,nnviv aishnn,nnaihua innn,nnens rnstbergernn, ebastian teinhorst, avor vetinovic, icholas hristin, &nnikołaj arczentewicznnechnical niversity of unich, ienna niversity of conomics and usiness, ebrew niversity, mperial ollege ondon, niversity ollege ondon, arnegie ellon niversity, & niversity of urreynno investigate the implications of blockchain censorship. he research will formalize, quantify, and analyze the security impact of blockchain censorship, by providing a holistic overview of censorship on the consensus layer and application layer, dissecting the quantitative etent of censorship, and investigating the historical transaction confirmation latency on thereum.nn odel awnnr. rimavera e ilippinn,nnr. orshed annannn, ilke lrifai, atemah annizadeh, onstance hoi, ri himony, & ick udleynn (oalition of egal utomated pplications)nno enhance legal recognition and protections for ecentralized utonomous rganizations (s), this project focuses on revising and updating the  odel aw v., originally released in . he objective is to address advancements in technology and changes in governance norms over the past two years, as well as to provide necessary additions to support the implementation of the  odel aw in various global legal frameworks. his effort builds on previous work that has already influenced  legal frameworks in jurisdictions such as tah and ew ampshire in the nited tates.nnthereum as microcredit for financial inclusion in a developing country ssessing the drivers and barriersnnr. hazim halidnn, &nnndrei .. woknnonash niversitynno understand the eperiences, challenges, and opportunities of using thereum as a microcredit system in developing countries, specifically enya, this research will conduct interviews with key stakeholders. y focusing on user perceptions of thereum's reliability and efficacy, the study aims to inform policymakers, financial institutions, and developers about the practical implications of blockchain-based microcredit systems. hese insights will facilitate the refinement of the thereum ecosystem to better meet the needs of its users, especially in regions that lack access to traditional financial services.nnthereum evelopment nraveled  lockchain of ommunicationnnr. ilvia artoluccinn,nnr. iuseppi estefanisnn,nnr. umanya eykovann, &nnr. arco rtunnniversity ollege ondon, runel niversity ondon, & niversity of agliarinno assess the security, risks, and robustness of the thereum ecosystem, this research proposes an in-depth analysis of the thereum developer community and the software compleity of key open-source projects. everaging network theory and sentiment analysis, the study aims to () understand the dynamics within the thereum developer community and software compleity, () predict potential internal conflicts and their potential impact on token prices, and () develop a user-friendly digital toolkit providing interactive access to and visualization of the gathered data. his toolkit, utilizing comprehensive datasets from ithub, will enhance transparency and understanding of thereum's open-source projects and development practices for both practitioners and end-users.nnthereum ostdoctoral cholar (egal)nneuben oungblomnn nno bridge the gap between legal and technical understanding in the contet of digital currencies, this grant will establish a postdoctoral research position at 's igital urrency nitiative. his position will host recent law graduates, offering them technical eposure and guidance from both  and tanford aw's euben oungblom. he goal is to equip new legal professionals with a deeper comprehension of the technical nuances in the digital currency landscape, aiding in better regulation and legal practice.nnorking the conomy n thnography of ryptonnnnaliese ilanonnondon chool of conomicsnno address the lack of in-depth academic eploration into the culture of cryptocurrency communities, this project seeks to leverage two years of empirical research to produce an ethnographic study of the thereum community and its relationship with the itcoin community. nthropologists, with their epertise in immersive, long-term community studies, are leading this investigation. he primary objectives are to enhance understanding of the social layer of cryptocurrency for better protocol development and to rectify outsiders' misconceptions about these communities' objectives.nnovernance archaeology for decentralized communitiesnnrof. athan chneidernn, &nnrof. ederica arugatinnniversity of olorado, ouldernno facilitate collective governance and inspire institutional learning in the realm of decentralized governance, this project, known as overnance rchaeology, aims to establish a comprehensive global resource of historical governance practices, especially from non-estern contets. he project will epand upon an eisting prototype database to include a broader range of practices, analyze emergent patterns, and make the resource publicly accessible and editable as an open-source tool. dditionally, a workshop will be organized for the eb community to optimize their use of this database, thus contributing to more successful and sustainable self-governance strategies.nnegally credible neutrality of thereumnnikołaj arczentewicznnndependentnno safeguard thereum's status as a public, permissionless network, this project aims to eplore the legal implications and potential liabilities of network participants, such as validators, particularly in contets where they have discretionary power. he project is driven by the potential risks that legal accountability could pose to thereum's structure and operations. t proposes to conduct in-depth research on how these legal risks can be addressed and to what etent they should inform protocol design and development.nnerging astern ultures to omplete the issing uzzle of  ocialware.nnujin eennn,nntwinfinnn, & unghooon innneast ovementnno bridge the gap between the technology and community trust in s, this research project, named east, aims to eplore 'socialware', the component fostering trusted communities through reciprocal non-contractual relationships. he study will employ a diachronic approach to eamine socialware through the lens of 'relation-centric' ast sian philosophy, contemplating the convergence of estern philosophies championing individual freedom and astern philosophies emphasizing human connection.nnpen-ource oftware evelopment and ommunity ynamics istorical nsights and thereum mplicationsnnr. ariia etryknn&nnr. iasun innndependentnno gain deeper insights into thereum's open-source ecosystem, this project aims to apply data-driven analysis techniques, building on the team's established epertise in open-source software research. he plan is to formally test various hypotheses, drawing from studies conducted on the evolution of other open-source software. he project aspires to uncover patterns pertinent to thereum and, by doing so, aims to provide guidance that could steer the long-term development of the thereum ecosystem.nnhe ocial ayer n thnography of thereum evelopmentnnnn rodynn&nnr. aul ylan-nnisnnndependentnno understand the dynamics within the thereum development community, this project plans to conduct an ethnographic study focused on thereum client developers involved in the hanghai hard fork. he research, utilizing interviews, will eplore the developers' perspectives and the ways they navigate community epectations and pressures. he goal is to gain insights into how core thereum developers build trust with the broader community and manage 'transparency' throughout the development process of the hanghai hard fork.nne would like to epress our gratitude to all the applicants and congratulate the recipients. e are ecited to see the progress of these projects and the positive impact they will have on the thereum ecosystem.nnor more information about the thereum oundation's cademic rants program, please visit ournnwebsitenn. e look forward to receiving applications for the net round of grants in .nnhe thereum oundation's cademic rants program is part of our ongoing commitment to supporting research and development that advances the thereum ecosystem. e believe in the power of academic research to drive innovation and are proud to support these projects.