Titre: Layer 2 Community Grants Winners\nAuteur: Rodrigo Vasquez\nDate: February 9, 2023\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2023/02/14/layer-2-grants-roundup\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhe rivacy & caling plorations team is ecited to announce the winners of thennayer  ommunity rants nn.nnhe ayer  ommunity rants round started on ctober th,  and was open for  weeks. n total we received + proposals and thank each project for taking the time to apply.
hennwishlistnncompiled sought applications from all areas including ayer  eplorers, cryptography, and education.nnhis chart shows percentage of initial applicants by categorynnue to the high quality of proposals, we raised the budget from an initial k  to a total of k .nnhe awarded applications percentage per categorynnranteesnne congratulate the  grantees awarded and present their project descriptions broken down by categorynn🔒 ybersecuritynnandidelabsnn- - ublic nfrastructurennn open source bundler and a paymaster service as public good infrastructure for - smart contracts wallets, layer  focused.nnuantstampnn- ollup ecurity rameworknnhe project will create a detailed security framework for unique features of rollups. hey want to establish a foundation for basic best practices and transparency for these features to assist new developers of these systems and enable the community to assess the security risks of a particular rollup before they use one. imilar to those that are available for smart contract development and the very high-level overviews of rollup security like eat.com. he framework will discuss concerns and details of escape hatch development and operational risks for end-users and developers and establish a consistent language for these and other features.nn👨‍💻 ser periencennpiro - zkalletnnulti-party wallets (e.g. nosis safe multisigs) are a proven way for a group of users to share control over an account’s digital assets and behaviors. nfortunately, current implementations of multi-party wallets epose the privacy of their total number of operators and their associated eternally owned accounts. he goal of this project is to build a private multi-party wallet that shields end users by employing account abstraction (-) and zero-knowledge proofs.nnautuk undannn- tackr etworknntackr network is an  for launching standalone customizable app-specific rollups using familiar web-like tooling. t focuses on the core principle of a roll-up, that is, to run a state machine off-chain and use  to store transaction details. his can be achieved by general-purpose languages that can maintain the app-state off-chain and provide an interface to interact with it, thus acting as a standalone . t allows building a new class of applications that will have more freedom over their eecution choices.nncopeiftnn-  ptimizorsnnayer  networks share security with main-net by posting transaction call data to ayer . s a result, ayer  users pay their portion of the main-net gas costs when eecuting transactions. ayer  gas can be , more epensive than ayer  gas, so paying for call data dominates  transaction costs. ith custom router contracts that use less call data than standard methods, we can significantly reduce transaction costs to interact with popular protocols.nnestinprod - ayer.nnayer . enables anyone to launch their own ayer  by providing easy tools. t provides an easy application that launches your own ayer  with necessary tools—for eample, block eplorer, token bridge, monitoring tools, etc.nncopeiftnn- ayer  overnance with leible otingnnleible oting is an etension of the popular overnor system used by many s. t allows new kinds of delegation contracts to be written, making it easier for governance token holders to participate in on-chain votes. ne such use case is the subject of this grant ayer  governance voting. olders of bridged governance tokens could vote from ayer , paying the cheaper gas prices available there. hese votes would be trustlessly reflected on  where the 's overnor system is deployed.nnlement alter -nntarksheetnntarksheet aims to democratize the access and usage of on-chain resources (data and logic). t leverages a familiar spreadsheet to help the user query and link on-chain resources. he work is saved on-chain as s and can be queried later-on from any other dpp/contractnnristof azsonn- ypescript - undlernnhe project will include the development of an - bundler in ypescript and the relevant modifications to a eth node for simulation purposes so that the bundler can run on any directly eth-compatible chain (which includes most s) with little modifications. he bundler will also epose the  calls defined in the specification, and maintain an internal mempool to be future-proof when  propagation will be developed.nnoul alletnn- pen-source - walletnnasy-to-use browser wallet implementation powered by -.nn📚 ommunity and ducationnnose igueroa -  en spañolnn en spañol is an open community that aims to research, educate and drive the adoption in all these thereum's scaling solutions. hey focus on both developers and new users in their quest to stay up to date with these technologies and their utility. e create content and carry out different activities from publications to workshops for free, while supporting the different projects that innovate in this space, while maintaining also its core neutrality.nnruce unn- yirstayernnhis will be an open-source, community-driven, and educational project. his will be a website for people curious about ayer but without prior knowledge about ayer or lockchain. e aim to use well-designed diagrams and interactive animation to help people get the idea behind ayer in mins. fterward, we will guide people to some real-world ayer apps step-by-step and let them feel the benefits of ayer.nn🗄️ ata nalysisnnlockscoutnn- lockscout lock plorernnn open-source block eplorer is currently needed for the  ecosystem. lockscout is already used by many  projects, and additional customizations specific to  data requirements will increase usability. n addition, a new interface, features, analytics and developer friendly improvements will help create a more transparent and usable community eplorer.nnuantstampnn- valuating ollup ompressionnnompression is often overlooked when discussing rollups. y design, rollups are required to make data available in order to verify state transitions or state roots however, the method for this publication varies, and may include compressed data. here is also variability in the compression techniques used. his project will eplore the use of compression in the rollup setting. irst, the project will eplicate places where compression is used and document the techniques that may be used. econd, the project will survey eisting rollups to investigate the approaches that are actually used in practice. hird, the project will evaluate approaches proposed or used across similar systems and attempt to identify why a particular approach is used. inally, the project will use the insights collected in order to suggest new approaches for compression of rollup data and pose open problems to the community.nniablobenchnn- erformance and ecurity valuation of ayer  lockchain ystemsnnhe niversity of ydney and the  have designed a benchmark suite to evaluate the security and performance of blockchain systems. he first evaluations compared layer  blockchains such as lgorand, olana and iem and will be published soon in a peer reviewed international conference (urosys). his project aims at adding layer  blockchain systems to the iablo benchmark and to use it to produce the first etensive and realistic benchmark evaluation of layer  blockchain systems on a worldwide deployment.nneb-datann- ayer  ctivity racking & omparison uitennhrough this project, we aim to deliver a high-quality set of ashboards that help enable data scientists, researchers, and all community members to better understand ayer  ctivitynne will aggregate data across ayer  networks leveraging sources such as une, eats, antiment, oinecko, ithub, iscord, and, in many cases, directly from the project s/s.nne will clean and organize this data to provide a suite of displays that will allow the community to visualize changes across key  metrics (e.g. tps, rent paid to thereum, growth in , daily active addresses, new addresses, total addresses, fees paid, and developer activity based on itub affiliated repo commits).nne aim to label smart contracts (and ultimately enable the community to label smart contracts) by usage categories (ative transfer, ei , ei other, , , tablecoin,  other,  rent, ridge, rbitrage/, tility). his labeling will allow us to analyze and visualize the usage patterns on a high level and also show the “hottest” smart contracts in the different usage categories. e are leveraging known labels from une, rbiscan, therscan, and others.nn eatnn-  eatnnontinue to work on transparent and verifiable insights into emerging layer two () technologies with epanded metrics and education.nn📊 ata isualizationnnuantstampnn- ack-nd  tandard for  lock porersnnhis project will clearly define properties that a block eplorer should implement in order to be considered feature-complete in the general layer two setting. dditionally, our goal is to propose and specify a standard  interface that the layer two networks should epose to general block eplorers. e envision that such a standardized interface will enable and greatly simplify the development of multiple block eplorers that will plug-and-play reusable with all the layer  networks that support the standard. n the ideal scenario, the standard would turn the development of the core of a new block eplorer into a project that could be completed by an eperienced team during a weekend hackathon. ur goal will be to also define a standard that is consumer-agnostic. s such, it will not matter whether it is consumed by a block eplorer that is provided commercially, is open source, or potentially even decentralized. he project will pay special attention to what unique layer two data a block eplorer should provide, with an emphasis on those related to security of the chains monitored by it.nnlossom absnn-nnlobscannnhe first eplorer for the - shard blob transactions. t indees and presents them in a searchable format that the user can visualize and navigate through in an easy way, providing the necessary infrastructure to scale thereum.nn🧮 ryptography and ero-knowledge proofsnnhe enn,nnjval isrann, and awn ong (niversity of alifornia at erkeley) -nnpecularnnhe most popular optimistic rollups (s) today, rbitrum and ptimism, strive to etend eisting thereum client software (eth) to support interactive fraud proof () construction, aiming to reuse prior  engineering efforts and replicate  semantics at . nfortunately, to do so they tightly couple their on-chain  verifier with a specific client program binary—oblivious to its higher-level semantics. his approach () precludes the trust-minimized, permissionless participation of multiple thereum client programs, magnifying monocolture failure risk () leads to an unnecessarily large and comple trusted computing base () that is difficult to independently audit and, () suffers from a frequently-triggered, yet opaque upgrade process—both further increasing auditing overhead, and complicating on-chain access control in the long-term.nne are therefore focused on building a secure, trust-minimized  that addresses these problems, while preserving scalability and dispute resolution efficiency. o do so, we have designed an  system native to the , that enforces thereum’s semi-formally specified semantics ] precisely at the level of a single  instruction. s a part of this work, we built pecular, an  which leverages eth—modified minimally with only  lines-of-code to support  construction—demonstrating the practicality, etensibility and trust-minimal nature of our approach.nnethermindnn, ustin haler (eorgetown niversity), atthew reen (ohns opkins niversity), and ratyush iwari (eorgetown niversity) - oncrete ecurity nalysis for  eployed roof ystemsnne propose to analyze the concrete security of the proof systems (s, s) that secure -rollups. e observe that some proof systems have security analyzed in the interactive setting, while their security after applying the iat—hamir transformation is only conjectured. urthermore, we believe that in some cases more efficient attacks are possible than the claimed security level asserts.nnthstoragenn- roof of torage on  ynamic atasets with an thereum  ontractnniven a list of commitments of s (e.g.,  commitments from -/anksharding, indeed from ...n-) in an  contract, the project is to study an efficient proof system to efficiently verify on  that the s are stored off-chain with the desired redundancy (e.g., ~ physical replicas). y putting these storage nodes in an  network and assuming /m of nodes is honest, we could build an  storage network that reuses mainnet security while etending thereum scalability dramatically.nnurther research will attempt to answer the questions of how to build the proof/verification system if the s and the commitments are constantly changed (e.g., new s are appended to the list or a  of an inde is changed) and how to build incentivized/payment system to ensure desired replication factor using  as payment it is possible to ask a storage node to store partial s while maintaining the same level of security of ainnetnne were etremely happy with the quality of applicants for this grants round. he research and work they produce will have a positive impact on the ecosystem. e suggest keeping an eye on them!