Titre: The potential to empower disenfranchised communities in Latin America using Ethereum\nAuteur: Marcus AM\nDate: February 6, 2023\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2023/02/06/empower-latam-ethereum-fellows\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhe following is an update fromnnthereum oundation ellownnarcus .nnola 👋, my name is arcus and 'm a researcher and builder from uatemala, and annn ellownn. n optimist at heart, ’m driven by leveraging social, cultural and technological innovation to build better societies - a conviction ’ve held from a young age.nnuatemala  ountry of hallenging pportunitiesnns a child,  would spend my weekends accompanying my father to visit many of uatemala’s most desolate townships. t the time, he ran a non-profit whose mission was to deliver last-mile healthcare and establish educational programs. he community we most often visited was the town of untarenas.nno reach untarenas, we used to travel up to three hours by boat through dense mangrove forests to arrive at a village deep in the jungle. hen we first started visiting, the community in untarenas had limited access to clean water, no healthcare or educational infrastructure, and minimal economic activity.nnstablished during the civil war, the people of untarenas sought refuge from the violence and massacres that took the lives of over , innocent civilians throughout the country. or the time being, ’ll spare you the harsh reality of the  intervention in atin merica (and beyond) during the old ar, but if you’re interested in learning more about the subject,  would highly recommend chlesinger and inzer’s booknnitter ruitnn.nnver the years, we worked with the community of untarenas to deliver medical and dental campaigns, establish a healthcare clinic, build housing, and raise funds for infrastructure investments, including a school run by the community.nnast forward a couple of decades and untarenas is now a self-sufficient village, where the families have access to education, healthcare, water, and energy (delivered by solar panels that even power a few computers at the school)! hat is happening in untarenas is a reminder that access to basic dignified services can make a huge impact in a community, even in the most dire of situations.nnhe story of untarenas depicts the reality of uatemala - a beautiful country, full of culture, rich heritage, and stunning landscapes. pon first impressions, uatemala also appears to be a relatively wealthy country in fact, we havennthe highest  in entral mericannand, at one point, thennhighest number of helicoptersnnper capita globally.nnnfortunately, the socio-economic fabric of uatemala paints an entirely different picture. e are a country that faces etreme inequality, onset by a violent -year long civil war and a history of eploitation and corruption. hroughout uatemala’s rural and primarily indigenous regions, it is not uncommon to encounter communities that, like untarena once, have been cut off from basic services such as running water, energy, shelter, healthcare, education, and food. espite these challenging conditions, people in these regions strive towards creating better livelihoods for themselves and those around them.nnmpact tarts at omennne of the biggest challenges to development is the fact thatnnover . million people in uatemala live in desolate living conditionsnn. n the most etreme cases, multiple generations have to share a single room, where open-fire stoves pollute the air, and where sanitation is an afterthought (if eistent at all).nne believe that providing dignified housing is at the root of building better futures for all. fter all, our homes are where we spend most of our time, where we learn, where our families come together, and where dreams are born.nnhis is why a group of life-long friends and  are working on an initiative callednnamina nn. amina  is a patented construction technology that utilizes commonly-found construction materials in innovative ways to build cheap, light-weight, and architecturally sound homes. he technology is simple and can be deployed in even the most remote areas of uatemala.nnorking with our partners, including abitat for umanity, the niversity of ambridge, and tanford, amina ’s system is drastically improving the wellbeing of those for whom we build homes. ollectively, we believe that a home is so much more than four walls - it is the opportunity to deliver a renewed sense of optimism and growth.nnhe outcomes of dignified housing are palpable. rom enhancing educational outcomes, reducing the environmental impact of housing, through to improving psychological well being, we’ve seen the amazing driver of development that the amina  system can provide. s we continue to develop, we’re ecited by the prospect of delivering more innovation-led solutions throughout uatemala and beyond.nntractive inance n bstacle to rogressnnespite our efforts, we have found that one of the key barriers to mass adoption of innovative solutions like amina ’s is the lack of financial infrastructure and education in disenfranchised communities. lthough amina ’s solution is % cheaper than any other leading low-cost housing alternatives, the people we aim to build housing for are unable to access loans with low-interest rates to invest in a home for their families.nnany of the financial transactions that take place throughout these communities happen in the ‘informal’ economy. ayments are made with cash, debts are not recorded, and goods and services sit well outside the purview of financial institutions. ending payments, accessing low interest-rate loans, building a credit history, and tracking commerce becomes nearly impossible with the current financial infrastructure in uatemala. perating in the ‘informal’ economy keeps the door closed for everyday people to leverage personal loans, business investments, let alone a mortgage.nns a consequence, many of these individuals rely on predatory lenders (among them traditional financial institutions), which often eploit vulnerable populations for their own benefit. t is not uncommon throughout atin merica to findnnloan sharks who will lend at a % monthly interest ratenn. rippling debtnnleaves many in precarious situationsnnforcing them to lose property deeds, to fall into delinquency, or even worse, to take their own lives.nnan rypto elpnnmong many things, crypto's promise is to create new, more equitable economic models that can benefit everyone, not just the wealthy and powerful. ome see ei’s promise as being able to provide financial services to those who may not have access to traditional financial instruments in emerging economies around the world, including some of the world’s most disenfranchised communities.nnf you're reading this, chances are that you're optimistic about the potential of technology to address some of these problems. aybe that means decentralized networks thatnnfundamentally revolutionizennthe way we interact with ourselves, each other, and systems of power. r maybe it simply means apps that use new and more accurate types of digital information to assess someone's creditworthiness so they can get a decent interest rate on a small loan.  think the reality will be somewhere in-between.nnn its current form, it is a stretch to say that ei is ready to provide viable new pathways to financial inclusion at scale. e face huge barriers to digital and financial literacy, institutional trust, and substantial challenges on the user eperience front. ut in spite of the state of where the industry currently stands,  believe that we have everything within reach in order to build solutions that are tailored towards communities such as untarenas.nny et illion ellowshipnn have spent the last few months actively eploring ways to break down this barrier of financial empowerment by leveraging the power of thereum. y goal is to research a number of viable solutions powered by cryptographic technologies for financial inclusion and access to credit to ultimately enable human flourishing across uatemala and beyond.nn have been researching which money legos might be useful in a place like untarenas and throughout the rest of uatemala. n particular,  have been eploring the barriers to adoption and potential solutions that could be used to unlock peer-to-peer lending for those without access to more equitable financial mechanisms.nno date, as a part of my research  have spoken with members of hundreds of crypto projects including those leading ei protocols, s, identity and scaling solutions, and other core developers, designers, wallet builders. dditionally, 've held conversations and interviews with local leading projects, government offices, and international s throughout uatemala and other emerging economies to understand where they may see crypto acting as a catalyst for new means of coordination and equitable financial services.nnhis research has been incredibly insightful and has allowed me to gain a better understanding of the current state of ei and the wider crypto ecosystem’s potential in emerging economies.nnet tepsnnurrently,  am preparing an open source report that will provide a detailed understanding of the current crypto landscape and offer recommendations on how to best utilize crypto to unlock more financial inclusion, particularly for those in emerging economies.  will be publishing the final report by the first week of arch (just in time for enver), so keep your eyes out for that!nnn addition to the written report,  will be publishing an audio-visual series that will feature a diverse set of stakeholders. his includes crypto-native thought-leaders and builders, those deploying solutions in emerging economies that leverage crypto, and of course the last-mile communities and organizations that would ultimately benefit from this technology.nnhe report and video series  am creating is primarily aimed for builders in crypto who would like to best understand the landscape of the technical, education, and social challenges and opportunities that should be considered as well as impact-led organizations throughout emerging countries that seek to understand how crypto may specifically benefit their efforts and initiatives.nno stay up to date on the latest findings from the research via email and contribute to the report, you cannnsubscribe and mintnna free  on irror. et’s also connect onnnwitternn!