Titre: Announcing the 2025 EF Internship Program!\nAuteur: Protocol Support Team\nDate: November 16, 2024\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/11/16/announcing-ef-internship-program\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nhe  thereum oundation internship applications are open! othnnresearchnnandnndevelopmentnnteams have open positions. pplications close on ecember , .nnhe thereum oundation is running its first formal summer internship program in  aimed at nurturing the net generation of thereum developers and researchers.nnnterns will work alongside  teams and, with the help of dedicated mentors, contribute directly to core projects in key areas such as protocol security, account abstraction, scaling research, client development, and more. or eample, a past intern worked onnn smoothing researchnnbefore eventually joining the  full time.nnho is this fornnpplicants should bennfamiliar with the thereum protocolnnand available for full-time work. f currently in university, they should be advanced in their studies. pplicants should have demonstrable interest in the speciality of the team with whom they apply to work.nnrogramnnelected interns will be assigned a short-term project and a mentor and should epect to work somewhat autonomously. nterns can choose to either work remotely, or in one of the  offices, in oulder () or erlin (ermany). n addition, interns will be invited for an in-person cohort meetup in the summer.nn vs internshipnnhe internship is geared toward those available for a defined 'summer time' commitment with a general skillset and a desire to learn how to apply that skillset to the thereum domain. n contrast, the eistingnnthereum rotocol ellowshipnnis a si month program that assumes advanced knowledge and a desire for full-time work in thereum.nnpplication rocessnnpplications are live and will close on ecember , . nitial screenings will be followed by formal interviews, with the notification process epected to be complete by  an.nnhe duration of the program will be approimately  weeks with start and end dates fleible depending on university schedules.nnou can apply for the roles herenneseach internshipnnoftware engineering internshipnnentoring teamsnnrotocol ecuritynn- he rotocol ecurity esearch team safeguards thereum’s integrity. hrough coordination, meticulous code reviews, research, developing advanced tooling, and real-world simulations, we focus on securing the network and its critical components. ur hands-on approach includes managing the bug bounty program, continuously monitoring the network, and collaborating with client teams. e’re committed to identifying and mitigating risks to thereum mainnet. heck out thennrotocol ecurity nnreferred skillsnnybersecurity classes or eperiencennobust ncentives roupnn- he obust ncentives roup is a research team dedicated to the study of mechanism design and cryptoeconomics for thereum. ur work maps all the ways that incentives directly or indirectly affect users and protocol stakeholders of thereum. here possible, we propose mechanisms to recover incentive compatibility and system optimality. ur methods are varied, from formal analysis to data science and simulations, and we engage academic and general audiences with diverse formats of grants, publications and talks. heck out our worknnon our homepagennand follow our updates withnnour newsletternn!nnreferred skillsnnamiliarity with  initiatives, previous work or writings in mechanism design or economics researchnnortal etworknn- he ortal etwork is a new networking design for thereum that aims to solve the data availability problem for "light" nodes without having to trust or put etra strain on full nodes, by sharing the necessary data in small chunks across the network. heck out thennethereum.org eplainernn, talks fromnnevcon  nn,nnevcon ogotá nn, thennnetwork specsnn.nnreferred skillsnnomputer science classes, some ust knowledgennestingnn- he  project is responsible for the thereum protocol reference tests, used by all clients to detect consensus issues during new hard-fork implementations and regressions.
he team also takes care of maintaining and improving the tooling, frameworks, documentation and guidance required to facilitate the client developers with the consumption of the tests, which includes the , the legacy ethereum/tests repository, and also integration tests in the form of various hive simulators.
heck out thennevcon   talknnon .nnreferred skillsnnesting frameworks (ive) and methodologies (fuzzing, simulations)nnnn- he  project is responsible for the main thereum protocol reference specification written in ython, which aims towards replacing the yellow-paper specification and being a crucial aid to the  process in order to provide a prototyping framework for new updates.
heck out thennevcon   talknnon .nnreferred skillsnnpec writing, technical documentation, formal verificationnnethnn- eth (go-ethereum) is a o implementation of thereum - a gateway into the decentralized web. eth has been a core part of thereum since the very beginning. eth was one of the original thereum implementations making it the most battle-hardened and tested client.
eth is an thereum eecution client meaning it handles transactions, deployment and eecution of smart contracts and contains an embedded computer known as the thereum irtual achine. unning eth alongside a consensus client turns a computer into an thereum node.
ou can find more information onnneth's websitenn.nnreferred skillsnno, devppnnccount bstractionnn- hennnnteam focuses on the development, growth and coordination efforts related to account abstraction and chain abstraction, which started via thenn- standardnn, and continue through additional standards and protocol level changes on  as well as s.
he team is responsible for research and development of various components and standards ofnnaccount abstractionnn, chain abstraction and cross- communication. t also supports entities in the ecosystem that are building on top of these standards, while advocating for their overall adoption in the space through education, conferences, grants and other growth strategies.nnreferred skillsnnolidity, , , wallet designnneneralistnn- f you have a specific project in mind that deals with the general thereum governance process or another core protocol project, propose it!nnkillsnnhis role is for eceptional individuals with specific projects in mind and intimate familiarity with the thereum governance process.