Titre: Results from the Academic Grants Round 2022\nAuteur: Sara Amaral & Rodrigo Vasquez\nDate: December 10, 2024\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/12/10/academic-grants-22\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\ne firmly believe that information is a public good that should be freely shared within the community. n line with this philosophy, in  we initiated annseries of grants to support academic researchnnto foster knowledge and further enhance the thereum ecosystem. he response we received was overwhelming, and we awarded  grants to eceptional builders who actively worked across diverse domains to push thereum-related knowledge forward. n this blog post, we are ecited to present a summary of the results achieved by each grantee, along with resources for those seeking deeper insights. e will keep sharing results as they come, as some grantees continue their research.nnitlennrantee(s)nnummarynnmplification essaging for hort-erm lot inality and mproved eorg-olerancennammurabi endes, h..nnnnonad ulaj, h..nnat avidson ollegennroposal of a slashable quorum system for enhanced consensus finality.nnattle of the ots iner tractable alue and fficient ettlementnnrof. lfred eharnnnnrof. hristine arlounnat the niversity of algarynnodel of the effects of private settlement on arbitrage.nnoded ransaction roadcasting for igh-throughput lockchainsnnrof. ohammad lizadehnnnnei ang, h.. studentnnat nn mechanism for efficient transaction broadcasting in high-throughput blockchains.nnombining ccountability and ame heory to trengthen lockchain ecuritynnrof. incent ramolinnat the niversity of ydneynnntroduction of ero-oss lockchain () to tolerate adversaries.nnross chain authenticated queriesnnr. amiano i rancesco aesannat the niversity of isa & niversity of ambridgennesearch on cross-chain communication through authenticated query protocols.nn(anksharding + ) uilder centralization s it really safennuisu angnn unoung ee, h.. candidate eongwan ark eungju ee oojin eong at eoul ational niversitynntudy on builder centralization risks in thereum.nn . nderstanding thereum empool o ecurity via tateful uzzingnnrof. uzhe angnnnnai i, h.. studentnnnniaqi hen, h.. studentnnnnibo ang, h.. studentnnat yracuse niversitynn study on thereum security vulnerabilities and mitigation strategies.nnfficient rivate nformation etrieval for thereum ight lientsnnrof. un innnnrof. on oang aunn hat uang ao, h.. studentnnrof. hen engnnat  niversitynnevelopment of a parallel private retrieval scheme for thereum light clients.nnquilibrium staking rewards mplications for o blockchain securitynnrof. alis utninsnn ra guyen, h.. candidate ecky ao, h.. candidatenn study on how eternal factors affect staking rewards and blockchain security.nneasibility tudy of ipelining in thereum irtual achine rchitecturennopal jhannesearch on thereum irtual achine performance enhancement through pipelining.nnormal odeling and erification of alidator oluntarily it in thereum . eacon hainnnamra fzaalnnnnuhammad mar anjuann uhammad mran at nformation echnology niversity of unjabnnormal verification of the thereum . eacon hain validator eit process.nn (mally rified block optimization)nnrof. lvira lbertnnnnrof. amir enaimnn rof. nrique artin-artin at niversity omplutense of adridnnormal verification of block optimizations on thereum smart contracts.nnovernance ased n references, ncentives, and nformationnnrof. o aggonernnat the niversity of olorado, ouldernntudy on public projects decision-making mechanisms.nnechanism esign and mpirical nalysis of  revention echanismsnnrof. gostino apponinnat olumbia niversitynnmprovement of private pools to reduce inefficiencies in public blockchains.nn protection through delayed eecution with time-locked puzzlesnnohammad ahanara at ei ab at niversity of ritish olumbiannroposal of a multiparty delay encryption method to mitigate .nnonetary olicy in the ge of ryptocurrenciesnnrof. hai guyennn rof. ra ham r. inh guyen hanh r. inh guyen hi y r. uan hu r. eng ok r. hong guyen at  ietnamnneport on the impact of cryptocurrencies as legal tender on the economy.nnptimal esign of iner tractable alue uctionsnnr. eyman hezrnnnnr. ijay ohannnat  niversitynntudy on auction designs and their effects on .nno thereum gent-ased odelnnrof. laudio . essonenn icolò allarano, h.. at niversity of urichnnevelopment of a simulation model for thereum's o protocol.nnrivacy-enhanced and efficient  routing algorithms for the thereum networknnstván ndrás eres, h.. student omokos elen, h.. student erenc éres, h.. student ndrás . enczúr, h.nnimulator for evaluating privacy-enhanced routing algorithms in thereum.nn onsensus-layer mitigations for validator ransomware attacksnnr. an 'eeffenn r. arren urley-mith lpesh hudia, h.. candidate at oyal olloway niversity of ondonnnaper on ransomware attacks on thereum validators.nnikuna an thereum blockchain network security monitoring systemnnr. ndres omez amirez, h..nnnnoui l ardy, h.. candidatennby istemas denia nternacionalnnool for detecting potential attacks on the thereum blockchain network.nnime series analysis for transaction fee marketnnuisu angnnunoung ee, h..nn eongwan ark eungju ee oojin eong at oongsil niversity and eoul ational niversitynntrategy to minimize thereum transaction fees through time series analysis.nnhe ost of ybils, redible ommitments, and alse-ame roof echanismsnnruno azorrannnnicolás ella ennannat ompeu abra niversitynntudy on ybil-proof mechanisms and reward sharing in blockchain networks.nnhe influence of transaction costs on economic activity on the thereum networknnr. ennart ntennat lockchain esearch abnntudy on the effects of gas fees on economic activity in the thereum ecosystem.nnhe arket for usic on-ungible okens (s) rice, olume, and isknnanling iang, h..nnnneli iao, h..nn olita azarov, .. aiiang (iego) hu,  at tony rook oundationnntudy on how investor composition affects the music s market.nnrustworthy ormal erification for thereum mart ontracts via achine-heckable roof ertificatesnnrof. rigore osunnnniaohong henm, h.. studentnnat niversity of llinois rbana-hampaignnnesearch on reducing trust base for thereum smart contract verification.nnnderstanding aiting ime in ransaction ee echanismsnnrof. uyao hang, h..nnnnrof. an hang, h..nn esearch ellow ianyu unntudy on the interaction of waiting time and gas fees in thereum transactions.nn-s as a ervicennrof. bhishek ainnnat ohns opkins niversitynnesearch on zk-s and the scalability of zero-knowledge proof generation.nnn rogressnnitlennrantee(s)nnummarynnclipse and o-esilient verlays for igh-erformance lock isseminationnnrof. pyros oulgarisnn vangelos olyvas, h.. leandros ntonov, h.. at thens niversity of conomics and usinessnn protocol to accelerate the voting process in thereum's o consensus.nnnalysis of the ynamic nterplay between thereum and thereum ollups ransaction ees and emand rendsnnysajan ziznnnnuneet aur agpalnnnalysis of transaction fee trends between thereum and its rollups.nnnalyzing and ecuring thereum o in the ully synchronous etworknnr. iang angnnnnhenliang u, h..nnnnr. uan unnat niversity of ydneynnesearch in rogressnnisentangling ransaction rivacy and onsensus in thereumnnrof. artik ayaknnnnrof. an hangnnat uke niversitynnesearch in progress.nnmproving thereum ommunication fficiency through ccountability and leible uorumsnnrof. artik ayaknnat uke niversitynnesearch in progress.nntaking echanism esign thereum . for oodnnrof. uyao hang, h..nnnnr. ulin iunn esearch ellows inyu ian ianyu in esen huang at cicon nnesearch in rogressnnollups as ubsidiary olitical nitsnnric lstonnnrof. o aggonernnat niversity of olorado, ouldernnesearch in progress.nnounded odel hecking for erifying and esting thereum onsensus pecificationsnnr. oucheng unnnnnr. ucas . ordeironnat niversity of anchesternnesearch in rogress