Titre: The latest chapter for Ethereum & highlights from Devcon SEA\nAuteur: Devcon Team\nDate: Team on December 4, 2024\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/12/04/devcon-sea-wrap\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\nevcon has always been a living reflection of thereum’s growth, challenges, and community ambitions. t showcases the most pressing topics, the newest innovations, and the people building the future of decentralized technology.nns thereum grows, so too does evconnn.nnwo years ago, right before evcon  in ogotá, the erge took thereum’s consensus from proof of work to proof of stake. evcon  focused not only on the achievement of this milestone, but also on the net innovations early ayer- development, the introduction of ccount bstraction (), and the rise of zero knowledge proofs (s) as an epansion of thereum.nnast forward to today, evcon  celebrated the ecosystem’s readiness to take on the net big challenges. he content demonstrated how far thereum has come, how thereum's  and s have advanced, how  is improving, and how second-generation cryptographic primitives are enabling new types of applications. he tone has shifted from addressing foundational challenges to leveraging thereum for real-world impact.nnn this blog post, we’ll eplore how thereum has grown since evcon , what the key outcomes of evcon  are, which challenges remain, and how you can contribute so that we can celebrate the net chapter of thereum when we meet for evcon again.nnooking back to evcon  ow far we have comennetting the stage, let’s reflect on where we were just two years agonnevcon nnwas held in ogotá, olombia, in ctober . t brought the thereum community together to address key technical and governance challenges. t the time, the erge had just happened, and the event reflected the celebration of this transformative milestone and focused on rising innovative technologies.nnevcon  introduced major themes for the first time, and terms that many hadn’t been familiar with back thennnero nowledge roofsnnwere introduced to much of the thereum ecosystem. hey were just becoming practical and people started to understand their capabilities. here was no mention yet of other cryptographic primitives like ully omomorphic ncryption () or ulti-arty omputation ().nnccount bstractionnnwas new and just announced. ost people hadn’t heard of -, which hadn’t been implemented at that time.nnhennayer nnecosystem was in its early stages with only a few prominent s like rbitrum and ptimism, and the -centric roadmap was kicked off.nntaking infrastructurennwas nascent and there were still uncertainties, with staking withdrawals not yet enabled.nnensorship resistancenn, while an old topic, was on everyone's mind with discussions around  compliance and ornado ash sanctionsnnevcon  thereum’s infrastructure is ready, now it’s time for impactnnevcon nnwas held in angkok, hailand, in ovember of . ttendance doubled compared to evcon  (, vs , attendees), demonstrating thereum's growth and community strength. ne major goal of evcon  was to bring the entire thereum ecosystem together in one place, foster collaboration, and cross-pollination, and realign the community to improve thereum for real use cases and impact on the world.nnince evcon , the continued use of o plus other upgrades like hanghai and hapella have reduced energy use, gas fees, and improved . he  landscape has epanded, with total value locked in thereum  networks surpassingnn.nnbnninnlnnlnninnonnnnn,nnannnn. billion, a % increase fromnn.nnbinnllnninnonnnnn,nnannnn. billion in ovember . thereum’s integration of s has advanced, and we now see more real-world use cases, with ei and stablecoins maturing, and gaming, digital identity, quadratic funding, and prediction markets emerging.nnut over the past two years, the thereum community has also debated its direction and priorities. hile ayer s are key for scaling, the rise of new s introduced diverse subcultures, sparking discussions about how to maintain unity. any called for annreturn to thereum’s cypherpunk rootsnn, focusing on privacy, decentralization, and credible neutrality - values that some felt were overshadowed by viewing thereum as a product rather than a protocol. here was a shared urgency to realign on a unified purpose.nnevcon  aimed to address these debates by inviting the best in the ecosystem to share their insights on the most relevant topics. ver  hours of content from ecosystem eperts,  ommunity ubs organized by the community,  mpact paces, and thousands of conversations in between sessions were held in the long hallways.nnevcon  sparked conversations about the most pressing challenges for thereum, controversies as well as achievements, and some big announcements were made too. ustin rake outlined his vision of anneam hainnn, and thennrgot ollectivenn, which is a new organization embodying many of our shared values of thereum, introduced itself.nnead on to discover the major outcomes of evcon , and which talks you should watch to get up to speed if you want to contribute to the remaining challenges within the respective topics.nnthereum has scaled and ayer s are net positive for thereumnnroto-danksharding, -, blobs, and thennroll-up centric roadmapnn- he scaling solutions highlighted at evcon  showed how far thereum has come. ayer s, which are scaling thereum, see real adoption. aily user activity has eploded in size, and the total value locked is growing steadily. e have low fees, and you can send , , or  million dollars for less than a cent. ll s are and will be secured by the thereum  ainnet, which is durable and secure with over  million validators and has never gone down since its launch in .nnhere’s still much to do to realize the rollup-centric roadmap, reduce fragmentation, and increase security. atch the below talks to figure out how to contribute to solving these challenges for thereum’s net chapternn“nnre lobs ood for thereumnn” panel with nsgar ietrichs, nthony assano, im obinson, and readguynn“nnhe  state of snn” by artek iepuszewskinn“nnnified thereum vs  cosystem ompetition an we have bothnn” panel with en ones, art ambur, esse ollak, teven oldfeder, and italik uterin.nn"nndvancing thereum calability rchitectural nnovation rends in the ayer nn" by oshua heongnnthereum is cypherpunknnevcon  reminded us why we are here, and why we are building a decentralized future, focusing on values like credible neutrality, privacy, censorship resistance, open access, and a cooperative mindset. evcon  had a fullnnprogramming tracknndedicated to this philosophy, and thennacktivism ubnn, organized by the community.nnalks to watch to keep up with the cypherpunk manifestonn"nnake thereum ypherpunk gain hy we need privacynn" by ac illiamsonnn"nnlass ouses and ornadosnn" by eter an alkenburghnn“nnessons learned from ornn” by oger ingledinenn"nn ew ypherpunk enerationnn" by mfnn"nnringing eer-to-eer etworks to ll the eersnn" by ranck oyernnpart from cypherpunk values, philosophy and ethos played a big role at evcon . ith ya iyaguchi, the eecutive director of the thereum oundation, epanding on the philosophy of subtraction with her talk “nnedefining boundaries in the infinite gardennn,” eplaining how the thereum oundation works, andnna full programming day dedicated to d/accnn(defensive acceleration), the philosophynnfirst introduced by italik uterinnn, focusing on thereum as a defensive technology, accompanied by talks about biodefense, decentralized , neurotech, and public epistemics.nn is getting ready for mass adoptionnn ,  ,  ,   are just a few eamples of how thereum is becoming ready for users. as fees are low,  is improving, and evcon  made us ecited for thereum feeling like one chain again. he community organized thennccount bstractionnnandnndoption ubsnnand many talks were focused on making thereum approachable to mainstream audiences.nnocial recovery is just the start. atch the below talks to learn how you can contribute to improving thereum’s , especially if you’re developing a rollup or a wallet, to get on speed with recent developments in  and ccount bstractionnn"nnploring the uture of ccount bstractionnn" by oav eissnn"nnnifying thereum through ntents and -nn" by art amburnn"nnhe hain bstraction aster lannn" by tephane osselinnn"nn- a technical deep divenn" by lightclientnn"nn- on inea built-in, trust-minimized  to  data retrievalnn" by uliennnhe time for real-world applications is nownnthereum is for users, and the app ecosystem has never been stronger than today, though still, we are just tapping into thereum’s possibilities for real-world applications. thereum is made for many things, and it’s a multi-purpose platform.nnthereum is home to its most mature use cases ei and stablecoins. ei is financial services and tools built on thereum that everyone in the world has access to and that give people greater control over their money. thereum has hundreds of teams working on ei protocols. tablecoins, too, give every human the freedom to transact and send value anywhere in the world.nnthereum is also where new use cases happen and new things are being invented, it is “where ideas enter production" (osh tark). e have decentralized social platforms, on-chain games, digital identity with , non dhaar, and zk passport, real-world infrastructure, quadratic funding with itcoin and clr.fund, and prediction markets like olymarket.nnf you were wondering what are the apps that are currently being built on thereum, or if you need inspiration to build more dapps, here are some talks to watchnn“nnhis year in thereumnn” by osh tarknn“nnthereum eal orld conomynn” panel with  osh, iam orne, and im eikonn“nntilizing national s in the thereum ecosystemnn” panel with lorent, iroyuki achibana, ichael lliot, nico, and anisnn"nnnon-adhaar rotocol sing alo and oirnn" by ridam asunn"nn rontier - challenges, lessons and future of building an autonomous world on thereumnn" by ilmar eterson and ustin ilbertnn“nnthereum's ltimate ift ill e irthing igital atternn” by hrumil hahnnconomics of thereum and nnhe discussions at evcon  reaffirmed the non-speculative value of thereum and  in the digital economy, with its sound economic principles, robust incentives and alignment with long-term goals for decentralized ecosystems.nnalks to watchnn"nn is permissionless moneynn" by ike eudernn"nnhy thereum's issuance policy is redacted]nn" by aspar chwarz-chilling and nsgar ietrichsnn"nnre s etractive to thereumnn" by en rypto ishnn"nnractical endgame on issuance policynn" by nders lowssonnnecond-generation cryptography enables new types of applicationsnnevcon  featured thousands of cryptographic plushy frogs, distributed by thennnnteam around the rogcrypto ub. ttendees collected frogs, and every time they scanned the  code, they received a provable object data (). ach evcon ticket was a  inside of upass, an application that enables users to securely store and manage roof-arrying ata (). hese cryptographic principles have been theoretical for many years and are finally becoming possible, and combined with thereum, we are now able to build applications that were never possible before. hile at evcon  only s were on everyone’s lips, as of very recent a new generation of cryptographic primitives like  and  are being used to create decentralized, privacy-preserving computation and interoperability, unlocking innovative and comple use cases for thereum-based consumer applications.nne are only now realizing how much is possible with second-generation cryptographic primitives and possibilities are etending our imagination. e need more people building and combining s, second-gen crypto and thereum. f you want to do that, watchnn“nnrogrammable ryptography and thereumnn” by ubsheepnn"nnow to hallucinate a servernn" by ubsheepnn"nnhe universal cryptographic adapternn" by ustin ilbertnn“nnrogrammable ryptography and thereumnn” panel with lbert i, arry hitehat, ubsheep, and italik uterinnn“nnehind upass pplied ryptography or onsumersnn” by ichard iunn“nnringing real-world identity on-chainnn” by anisnnthereum is frontier technnevcon  was also a platform for interdisciplinary collaboration, where thereum was discussed alongside other frontier technologies and in the contet of the future of our society.nnhese sessions highlighted thereum's ability to inspire and integrate with broader technological and societal challengesnn"nn/acc iscovery aynn" with italik uterin, incent eisser, li ourado, uan enet and morenn"nn⿻nfinite iversity in nfinite ombinationsnn" by udrey angnn"nnestern liberalism to world liberalismnn" panel with fra hao ang, hmed atnash, runo açães, iego ernandez, and italik uterinnnhe thereum community is strong and globalnnhe thereum community is not only growing, it is epanding globally t evcon , we welcomed , attendees with % eperiencing their first-ever evcon. articipants represented  countries, making this the most global and diverse evcon to date.nnhe thereum community is not only diverse in nationalities and ethnicities - the interests, identities, and focus areas are manifold with developers, protocol researchers, stakers, degens, regens, activists, artists, educators, and many more being part of the thereum community.
evcon  featured  ommunity ubs, from the eci ub, lobal ajority ub, and nchain reators ub, to the overnance eeks ub, these were manifestations of the diversity and ways to get involved in the thereum community. he ommunity ardeners ub focused on thereum community builders from all around the world. n ,  local thereum events in  countries were organized around the globe. ur community is decentralized and global, as thereum itself.nnow is your chance to shape the future of thereum ahead to evcon nnevcon  was not just a snapshot of where thereum stands today, it offers a vision of where it could go tomorrow. evcon  showed how thereum is bringing ideas into action, and every participant carries the lessons learned at evcon to continue spreading the word and advancing thereum's mission. nd who knows, the net person to impact the future of thereum may have first learned about it at evcon .nnevcon  photos and resourcesnnind photos from evcon nnherenn.nnou can search and watch all talks in thennevcon assport appnn.nni is available to answer all evcon-related questions, and will soon have access to all talk transcripts. ou can already get summaries of all talks in the assport app.nnant to share more insights about evcon talks o to thennevcon ollab ortalnn.nnhat's netnnldrnnevconnect nnevcon nnevconnectnnis the other, completely different event that the thereum oundation organizes. hile evcon is the large event that bringsnneveryonenntogether in one venue, evconnect is more decentralized. evconnect comprises many different events, focused on different thereum topics, organized by eperts in those fields. evconnect is the time to go deep into the topic you’re most familiar with or want to become an epert in, and join day-long events focused on that domain.nnhere will evconnect  and evcon  take place ou will need to wait just a little bit longer to find that out, and in the meantime, you cannncreate your proposalnnfor evcon, evconnect, or other thereum events to take place in your city.nnntil net time, oonneva the evcon nicorn & the evcon team