Titre: The Ethereum Foundation's Next Chapter\nAuteur: Hsiao-Wei Wang and Tomasz Stańczak\nDate: April 28, 2025\nURL: https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/04/28/next-chapter\nCatégorie: Non catégorisé\n\n==================================================\n\ni! his is siao-ei and omasz co-writing this blog post. e've now been in our new o-ecutive irector roles for almost a month. he honeymoon is over, it's time to get moving.nn oment of ransition and pportunitynnthereum has always been a journey a constantly evolving ecosystem powered by people who believe in building a more open and decentralized world. hile the thereum oundation () may be a decade old, it remains willing to reinvent itself.nnhis year,  embraced a new leadership model with dual ecutive irectors. his design brings diverse and complementary perspectives, enhancing our ability to meet comple challenges. e are ecited to embrace the opportunities and challenges ahead, guided by a deep commitment to thereum’s core values and a vision grounded in stewardship, coordination, and long-term thinking.nnmportantly,  is not a two-headed carriage pulling in different directions. ur relationship is built on mutual respect, trust, and shared values. e collaborate closely, challenge each other constructively, and ultimately move forward as a united team with shared goals.nnur rinciples and ocus reasnnooking ahead, we will be working with two pillarsnnuiding rinciplesnn(our core values) andnnbjectivesnn(our pursuit of impact and resilience). echnical ecellence underpins all that we do and it’s the foundation that enables us to deliver on our mission.nnur job as ecutive irectors is to implementnn’s visionnnin a constantly changing world. ur role includes strategic planning, ecosystem stewardship, team leadership, and operational oversight. ll in support of thereum's long-term success.nnalues we championnnensorship esistancennnsuring that thereum remains an open network where anyone, anywhere, can transact and build without barriers or eternal control.nnpen ource nnovationnnostering collaboration, transparency, and community-driven development through openly shared knowledge and tools.nnrivacy rotectionnnafeguarding individual freedom and autonomy in a digital world by enabling private interactions without sacrificing security.nnecuritynnaintaining trust, robustness, and resilience across the thereum ecosystem by prioritizing secure design and continuous research.nnhese values are the foundation that guide our technical choices, our support for the ecosystem, and our long-term vision for thereum as a public good.nnhile remembering these values, we’ve set major directions for the net  monthsnncaling thereum mainnetnncaling blobsnnmproving , including  interop + application layernnogether, that means improving mainnet and s interoperability and coodination, , ev, giving applications and s more presence and attention at evcon, amplifying their messages via communication channels.nneyond this, we understand that we need to accelerate journeys of developers, founders, institutions through the pathways towards building on thereum and adopting thereum. thereum oundation has knowledge and leaders who can mentor, lead, attract, and onboard talent.nnomasz’s otennthereum starts the net chapter. he values remain unchanged open source, censorship resistance, privacy, and security. he thereum oundation changes - into an organization that will communicate more and more openly, an organization that will be willing to enter difficult dialogues without delay.nne will focus on speed of eecution, accountability, clear goals, objectives, and metrics to track. e will be focused on the success of the thereum mainnet protocol. thereum mainnet will remain a global, neutral network, a protocol trusted to be trustless. e will focus on the success of thereum mainnet and the entire ecosystem - s that bring mass adoption and numerous benefits to the users, mainnet that stands as both a solid rock and a nimble network behind all the transactions and coordination mechanisms. e are ecited about the journey - a journey through one of the most inspiring technological and societal shifts we will ever eperience, a journey that we will embark on together - visionaries and down-to-earth builders.nnhead of us lies one year of scaling - scaling thereum mainnet (), supporting the success of  chains by providing them with the best architecture to scale, to secure their networks, and to bring confidence to their users. head of us is a focus on making the entire ecosystem of chains feel like one by delivering the best , design, and interoperability, while achieving scaling through engineering ecellence and cutting-edge research.nnsiao-ei’s otennn the net few months, my priority will be on strengthening the ’s operations to support the ecosystem’s growth. n adaptable and capable foundation helps us better serve thereum’s long-term mission.nns we move with sharper focus, one of our goals is to better support thereum’s application layer. e will support builders and users by improving the developer and user eperience, clarifying standards, strengthening ecosystems, and smoothing the journey from ideas to live applications.nne are working to improve how we plan, prioritize, and coordinate across teams within  and across the broader ecosystem, keeping our efforts aligned with community needs and thereum’s cypherpunk spirit. trengthening  is only one part of the transition. he real momentum comes from the energy and creativity of the global thereum ecosystem.nn uture uilt ogethernnthereum is not a monolith. t is a living, breathing network of communities, builders, researchers, artists, educators, and dreamers. t is global, diverse, and proudly decentralized. e are continually inspired by the creativity and resilience of the ecosystem.  will continue to show up where we’re most needed, but also make space when the ecosystem flourishes on its own. his is a community-led future.nnhe road ahead is full of possibilities. thereum has already transformed what's possible in technology, finance, governance, and beyond. o everyone building, teaching, researching, eperimenting, and imagining new futuresnnthank younn. ogether, we are building something bigger than any one team, project, or generation. e’re honored to walk this path with you, and we’re ecited for all that’s ahead.